Finish Part Two for Friday
Read to p. 123 for Tuesday's class
I will assessed your revised MA#1 using the outcomes.

Understanding Literature
Displays a deep understanding of the structure and content of each work; accurately reads and contextualizes textual details

Consistently draws relevant connections between course texts; demonstrates how texts reflect and/or engage with their social and historical contexts. 

Designs thesis statements and analysis to showcase their argument’s significance (the “so what?”); intentionally chooses and uses supporting evidence to bolster and logically develop main claims.
Precisely analyzes the ways in which language, structure, literary and rhetorical devices, technique, and style shape meaning.


Develops paragraph and essay structures that clearly illustrate the logic of the piece; builds argumentation in a cogent manner; transitions clearly between sources, evidence, and claims to clarify relationships and create cohesion and fluidity.
Uses punctuation deliberately and correctly; grammatical or spelling errors do not detract from meaning; smoothly embeds textual evidence.
Correctly cites textual evidence in MLA format; includes Works Cited page, title, and header according to MLA format as needed.

Reveals understanding of audience and task through varying diction and syntax; utilizes concise language for effect; adds interest and fluidity through phrases and clauses.
Please finish Part One for Tuesday's class.


Watch the videos below and take notes on the videos through the lens of colonialism and imperialism. We will be using your notes for our in-class work on Tuesday.

black shack alley


For Friday's class, please read to p. 30. We will go over the reading in class to pull out key scenes and help you understand what to annotate.


elf-review checklist as you finalize your diagnostic essay:

Have you shared your google doc with your instructor, giving them the ‘editor’ role? [Responsibility Standard] 
Is your essay formatted according to MLA standardsLinks to an external site.? Note: interesting titles are always appreciated! [MLA Citation Standard]
Is your topic sentence your XYZ thesisLinks to an external site. which includes a discussion of literary/rhetorical device(s) and theme(s)? [Argumentation & Structure Standards]
If you have more than one paragraph, does your second paragraph also begin with a strong topic sentenceLinks to an external site.? [Structure Standard]
Did you provide a basic context of your chosen passage towards the beginning of the first paragraph? [Understanding Literature Standard]
Do you analyze mainly 2-3 pieces of textual evidence from the passage and provide a minimum of 2-3 sentences of careful analysis (a deep dive) for each of your quotes? [Close Reading Standard]
Do you properly incorporate MLA in-text citationsLinks to an external site. and utilize quote sandwichesLinks to an external site. when introducing textual evidence? [Writing Mechanics Standard]
Did you only close-read evidence from your chosen passage? [Close Reading Standard]
Do you utilize transition wordsLinks to an external site. to help with sentence-to-sentence flow that illustrates the logical arc of your essay? [Structure Standard]
Does your analysis consistently return to your thesis statement to effectively show the logical progression of your argument? [Structure Standard]
Does your concluding sentence extend the introductory relevance of your thesis so it isn’t merely restating points you’ve already made? [Structure Standard]
Do you include an MLA Works CitedLinks to an external site. page?  [MLA Citation Standard]
Are you writing in the present tense? [Writing Mechanics Standard]
After re-reading your essay, does your thesis align with the rest of your paper? If there is misalignment, revise your thesis now. [Structure Standard]
When using quotation marks, is your period or comma inside the quotation [“Here is an example.”]? [Writing Mechanics Standard]
When citing a page, does your period go after the parenthetical citation? [“By convention, commas and periods that directly follow quotations go inside the closing quotation marks” (267).] [Writing Mechanics Standard]
Have you used spell check to make sure you don’t have any spelling errors? [Writing Mechanics Standard]
Have you checked Stanford’s Top 20 Errors in WritingLinks to an external site. list against your writing? [Writing Mechanics Standard]
Do you vary sentence structureLinks to an external site. and dictionLinks to an external site. to engage with your audience and maintain their interest? [The Writer’s Voice Standard]
Do you utilize concise languageLinks to an external site. to produce an intentional effect? [The Writer’s Voice Standard]
Do you add interest and fluidity through varied phrases and clausesLinks to an external site.? [The Writer’s Voice Standard]
 MA #1: Close Reading Assessment

How Beautiful We Were

 

This assessment is intended to polish and strengthen your close reading skills. For this assignment, please choose one of the excerpts below and write a 300-450 word close-reading analysis (about one page). This analysis should do three things: 

 

1) Begin with a topic sentence that has an XYZ thesis statementLinks to an external site. structure where you also state the author and the title of the novel (in italics). This statement should make an argument about why Mbue utilizes certain literary or rhetorical devicesLinks to an external site. to emphasize specific theme(s). Towards the beginning of this paragraph, you are welcome to include the basic context of the excerpt. One sentence should suffice.

 

2) Close-readLinks to an external site. the language of your chosen passage thematically to yield a richer understanding of the text. Analyze Mbue’s literary and rhetorical devices by attending to all of the language in your chosen passage that supports your main argument. Be sure to close with a sentence that explains how your close-reading relates back and expands upon your thesis statement.

 

3) Finally, please do not simply repeat your thesis in your concluding statement; instead, discuss the broader implications of your close readings and connect it to the novel at large. For example, take a look at the following model close reading paragraphLinks to an external site.. If you end up writing a second paragraph, make sure to commence with a strong topic sentence, followed by supporting evidence, as well as a closing sentence that extends your conversation outside of the passage you close-read.

 

Please write in MLA formatLinks to an external site. (12pt font, Times New Roman, double spaced).

 

Due Dates:

9/8 or 9/9: Diagnostic Close Reading Analysis due

9/26 or 9/27: Final Revision of Close Reading Analysis due

 

Rubric Categories:

Understanding Literature
Connecting Texts and Contexts
Argumentation
Close Reading
Structure
Writing Mechanics
MLA Citation
Writer’s Voice
Class Citizenship
Responsibility
Feedback
 

Please choose a passage from the list below:

 

Passage #1:

A smile that does not originate from my heart hurts my mouth, but I know I must join in and do my part. We had been taught to do this in school, to follow the leader, and being that Bongo is our leader in that moment, the sides of our lips rise as if pulled by strings from the sky. Everyone in the square is likely thinking along the same lines, because soon all of Kosawa is smiling alongside the inaudible conversation. Perhaps a few of the smiles are real, but I doubt it––all around me teeth are exposed but eyes are wide open. (58-9) 

 

Passage #2:

The representatives told them that drilling for oil would bring something called “civilization” to our village. One day, the government representatives said, Kosawa would have a wonderful thing called “prosperity.” Could the men explain “civilization” and “prosperity” in our language? our grandparents had asked. The government men had said it was impossible for them to explain such terms fully, because it would be hard for our grandparents to understand what they’d never witnessed or considered a possibility. But as soon as “civilization” and “prosperity” arrived, they added, our grandparents would be in awe of what a beautiful life they offer; they would lose all comprehension of how they and their ancestors could have lived without the wonders heaped upon them by the rapidly changing world around them. They would pour libations over and over to thank their ancestors. They would sing songs of gratitude to the Spirit every morning for having put oil under their land. (72-3)

 

Passage #3: 

A relative passes in front of our hut and wishes us a good evening. We wish him the same. I notice two of Lusaka’s daughters walking toward us. The older one is tall, her body at the junction where slender meets fleshy. She is beautiful. I’m surprised by my sudden assessment of her. I hope it means I’m forgetting Elali … 

 

Lusaka’s daughter sways onward, looking everywhere but my face. Her body is ripe for babies. Dead babies. I try not to think of dead babies. Do they realize it, the little girls of Kosawa, when they spend hours assembling babies of sticks and stalks with flowers for eyes, when they name and rock and sing to these things in an effort to preview their destiny as mothers––do they realize that their wish, if it were to come true, would be inevitable death? (80-1) 

 

Passage #4:

Only in my illustrations does it make sense to me, what happened in Kosawa, the absurdities of humanity. It is my sole escape from the senselessness of existence, rendering the world as I see it. A world where real turns surreal before my eyes––that is how I began experiencing life the day I returned. At work, a colleague’s head morphs into glass while we’re chatting. A book flies off my shelf and burns in the air. A crown descends on Mama’s head. My beloved’s skin turns translucent, I see her blood flowing. None of it frightens me, though I developed a fever the first time it happened, when Woja Beki was speaking at a village meeting and his tongue turned into a dog’s tail. These days it happens at random, but when I close my eyes and attend to my breath, all is real again. (327)

 

Rubrics Checklist:

Understanding Literature
Do you intentionally display a deep understanding of the themes and content of How Beautiful We Were? 
Do you demonstrate a sustained contextualization of textual details from the text?
 

Connecting Texts and Contexts
Do you consistently draw relevant connections between Adichie’s The Danger of a Single Story, Marien’s “The I Is Never Alone” and/or Mbue’s How Beautiful We Were? 
Do you demonstrate how you reflect and engage with cultural, social and/or historical contexts?
 

Argumentation
Do you commence with a strong thesis statement that is argumentative, explaining how Mbue utilizes literary devices to showcase a particular theme(s)?
Do you showcase your argument’s significance (the “so what?”) when explaining your argument?
Do you support your claims with intentionally chosen evidence from Mbue’s passage?
 

Close Reading
Do you analyze the ways in which your passage’s language, structure, literary and rhetorical devices, technique, and/or style help shape meaning?
Do you showcase your close-reading skills by noting features and language used by Mbue?
Do you explain how your close-reading relates back and expands upon your thesis statement?
Do you illustrate that you are thinking thoughtfully and methodically about the details in the passage and why they were used by Mbue?
 

Structure
Do you begin each paragraph with a strong topic sentence that builds on your thesis?
Do you support your topic sentences with ample evidence from your passage that supports your argument? 
Do you use transition markers (sentence to sentence; paragraph to paragraph) to clearly develop a narrative arc and progression? More specifically, do you use appropriate and varied transitions that clarify relationships among your ideas to generate cohesion and fluidity?
Does your essay effectively show the logical progression of the narrative arc you are telling about your passage from How Beautiful We Were?
Do you conclude with something new for your readers to think about; in other words does your conclusion extend the introductory relevance so it isn’t merely restating points you’ve already made? Ideally, your conclusion should be focused on leaving an impact on the reader.
 

Writing Mechanics
Do you use punctuationLinks to an external site. deliberately and correctly to emphasize meaning? 
Do you make few or no grammatical or spelling errorsLinks to an external site.?
Do you smoothly embed textual evidence, using the quote sandwichLinks to an external site. to effectively integrate quotes as evidence? 
 

MLA Citation
Do you correctly cite textual evidence in MLA formatLinks to an external site.?
Do you include an MLA Works CitedLinks to an external site. page, title, and header according to MLA format Links to an external site.as needed?
 

The Writer’s Voice
Do you intentionally develop your tone and distinctive writer’s voiceLinks to an external site. to appeal to your reader?
Do you vary sentence structureLinks to an external site. and dictionLinks to an external site. to engage with your audience and maintain their interest?
Do you utilize concise languageLinks to an external site. to produce an intentional effect?
Do you add interest and fluidity through varied phrases and clausesLinks to an external site.?
 

Class Citizenship
Have you contributed to class dynamic through various modes of participation during in-class activities? 
Have you displayed engagement with peers’ ideas? 
Have you balanced speaking and listening to others?
 Choose your passage for MA#1, annotate your passage for literary and rhetorical devices, and bring your xyz thesis drafts to class.



Responsibility
Have you consistently maintained preparedness and timeliness in submitting your close-reading, including intermittent deadlines (drafts and revisions)?
Have you provided shareable links with editing access by assignment deadline?
 
Bring your copies of How Beautiful We Were to discuss in class.
Feedback
Have you integrated feedback for growth in reading and writing practices to improve your writing?


















