
Mathematics and art are related in a variety of ways. Mathematics has itself been described as an art motivated by beauty. Mathematics can be discerned in arts such as music, dance, painting, architecture, sculpture, and textiles. This article focuses, however, on mathematics in the visual arts.
Mathematics and art have a long historical relationship. Artists have used mathematics since the 4th century BC when the Greek sculptor Polykleitos wrote his Canon, prescribing proportions conjectured to have been based on the ratio 1:√2 for the ideal male nude. Persistent popular claims have been made for the use of the golden ratio in ancient art and architecture, without reliable evidence. In the Italian Renaissance, Luca Pacioli wrote the influential treatise De divina proportione (1509), illustrated with woodcuts by Leonardo da Vinci, on the use of the golden ratio in art. Another Italian painter, Piero della Francesca, developed Euclid's ideas on perspective in treatises such as De Prospectiva Pingendi, and in his paintings. The engraver Albrecht Dürer made many references to mathematics in his work Melencolia I. In modern times, the graphic artist M. C. Escher made intensive use of tessellation and hyperbolic geometry, with the help of the mathematician H. S. M. Coxeter, while the De Stijl movement led by Theo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian explicitly embraced geometrical forms. Mathematics has inspired textile arts such as quilting, knitting, cross-stitch, crochet, embroidery, weaving, Turkish and other carpet-making, as well as kilim. In Islamic art, symmetries are evident in forms as varied as Persian girih and Moroccan zellige tilework, Mughal jali pierced stone screens, and widespread muqarnas vaulting.
Mathematics has directly influenced art with conceptual tools such as linear perspective, the analysis of symmetry, and mathematical objects such as polyhedra and the Möbius strip. Magnus Wenninger creates colourful stellated polyhedra, originally as models for teaching. Mathematical concepts such as recursion and logical paradox can be seen in paintings by René Magritte and in engravings by M. C. Escher. Computer art often makes use of fractals including the Mandelbrot set, and sometimes explores other mathematical objects such as cellular automata. Controversially, the artist David Hockney has argued that artists from the Renaissance onwards made use of the camera lucida to draw precise representations of scenes; the architect Philip Steadman similarly argued that Vermeer used the camera obscura in his distinctively observed paintings.
Other relationships include the algorithmic analysis of artworks by X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, the finding that traditional batiks from different regions of Java have distinct fractal dimensions, and stimuli to mathematics research, especially Filippo Brunelleschi's theory of perspective, which eventually led to Girard Desargues's projective geometry. A persistent view, based ultimately on the Pythagorean notion of harmony in music, holds that everything was arranged by Number, that God is the geometer of the world, and that therefore the world's geometry is sacred.

Polykleitos the elder (c. 450–420 BC) was a Greek sculptor from the school of Argos, and a contemporary of Phidias. His works and statues consisted mainly of bronze and were of athletes. According to the philosopher and mathematician Xenocrates, Polykleitos is ranked as one of the most important sculptors of classical antiquity for his work on the Doryphorus and the statue of Hera in the Heraion of Argos.[3] While his sculptures may not be as famous as those of Phidias, they are much admired. In the his Canon, a treatise he wrote designed to document the "perfect" body proportions of the male nude, Polykleitos gives us a mathematical approach towards sculpturing the human body.[3]
The Canon itself has been lost but it is conjectured that Polykleitos used a sequence of proportions where each length is that of the diagonal of a square drawn on its predecessor, 1:√2 (about 1:1.4142).[4]
The influence of the Canon of Polykleitos is immense in Classical Greek, Roman, and Renaissance sculpture, many sculptors following Polykleitos's prescription. While none of Polykleitos's original works survive, Roman copies demonstrate his ideal of physical perfection and mathematical precision. Some scholars argue that Pythagorean thought influenced the Canon of Polykleitos.[5] The Canon applies the basic mathematical concepts of Greek geometry, such as the ratio, proportion, and symmetria (Greek for "harmonious proportions") and turns it into a system capable of describing the human form through a series of continuous geometric progressions.[4]
In classical times, rather than making distant figures smaller with linear perspective, painters sized objects and figures according to their thematic importance. In the Middle Ages, some artists used reverse perspective for special emphasis. The Muslim mathematician Alhazen (Ibn al-Haytham) described a theory of optics in his Book of Optics in 1021, but never applied it to art.[6] The Renaissance saw a rebirth of Classical Greek and Roman culture and ideas, among them the study of mathematics to understand nature and the arts. Two major motives drove artists in the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance towards mathematics. First, painters needed to figure out how to depict three-dimensional scenes on a two-dimensional canvas. Second, philosophers and artists alike were convinced that mathematics was the true essence of the physical world and that the entire universe, including the arts, could be explained in geometric terms.[7]
The rudiments of perspective arrived with Giotto (1266/7 – 1337), who attempted to draw in perspective using an algebraic method to determine the placement of distant lines. In 1415, the Italian architect Filippo Brunelleschi and his friend Leon Battista Alberti demonstrated the geometrical method of applying perspective in Florence, using similar triangles as formulated by Euclid, to find the apparent height of distant objects.[8][9] Brunelleschi's own perspective paintings are lost, but Masaccio's painting of the Holy Trinity shows his principles at work.[6][10][11]
The Italian painter Paolo Uccello (1397–1475) was fascinated by perspective, as shown in his paintings of The Battle of San Romano (c. 1435–1460): broken lances lie conveniently along perspective lines.[12][13]
The painter Piero della Francesca (c. 1415–1492) exemplified this new shift in Italian Renaissance thinking. He was an expert mathematician and geometer, writing books on solid geometry and perspective, including De prospectiva pingendi (On Perspective for Painting), Trattato d'Abaco (Abacus Treatise), and De quinque corporibus regularibus (On the Five Regular Solids).[14][15][16] The historian Vasari in his Lives of the Painters calls Piero the "greatest geometer of his time, or perhaps of any time."[17] Piero's interest in perspective can be seen in his paintings including the Polyptych of Perugia,[18] the San Agostino altarpiece and The Flagellation of Christ. His work on geometry influenced later mathematicians and artists including Luca Pacioli in his De divina proportione and Leonardo da Vinci. Piero studied classical mathematics and the works of Archimedes.[19] He was taught commercial arithmetic in "abacus schools"; his writings are formatted like abacus school textbooks,[20] perhaps including Leonardo Pisano (Fibonacci)'s 1202 Liber Abaci. Linear perspective was just being introduced into the artistic world. Alberti explained in his 1435 De pictura: "light rays travel in straight lines from points in the observed scene to the eye, forming a kind of pyramid with the eye as vertex." A painting constructed with linear perspective is a cross-section of that pyramid.[21]
In De Prospectiva Pingendi, Piero transforms his empirical observations of the way aspects of a figure change with point of view into mathematical proofs. His treatise starts in the vein of Euclid: he defines the point as "the tiniest thing that is possible for the eye to comprehend".[a][7] He uses deductive logic to lead the reader to the perspective representation of a three-dimensional body.[22]
The artist David Hockney argued in his book Secret Knowledge: Rediscovering the Lost Techniques of the Old Masters that artists started using a camera lucida from the 1420s, resulting in a sudden change in precision and realism, and that this practice was continued by major artists including Ingres, Van Eyck, and Caravaggio.[23] Critics disagree on whether Hockney was correct.[24][25] Similarly, the architect Philip Steadman argued controversially[26] that Vermeer had used a different device, the camera obscura, to help him create his distinctively observed paintings.[27]
In 1509, Luca Pacioli (c. 1447–1517) published De divina proportione on mathematical and artistic proportion, including in the human face. Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) illustrated the text with woodcuts of regular solids while he studied under Pacioli in the 1490s. Leonardo's drawings are probably the first illustrations of skeletonic solids.[28] These, such as the rhombicuboctahedron, were among the first to be drawn to demonstrate perspective by being overlaid on top of each other. The work discusses perspective in the works of Piero della Francesca, Melozzo da Forlì, and Marco Palmezzano.[29] Leonardo studied Pacioli's Summa, from which he copied tables of proportions.[30] In Mona Lisa and The Last Supper, Leonardo's work incorporated linear perspective with a vanishing point to provide apparent depth.[31] The Last Supper is constructed in a tight ratio of 12:6:4:3, as is Raphael's The School of Athens, which includes Pythagoras with a tablet of ideal ratios, sacred to the Pythagoreans.[32][33] In Vitruvian Man, Leonardo expressed the ideas of the Roman architect Vitruvius, innovatively showing the male figure twice, and centring him in both a circle and a square.[34]
As early as the 15th century, curvilinear perspective found its way into paintings by artists interested in image distortions. Jan van Eyck's 1434 Arnolfini Portrait contains a convex mirror with reflections of the people in the scene,[35] while Parmigianino's Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror, c. 1523–1524, shows the artist's largely undistorted face at the centre, with a strongly curved background and artist's hand around the edge.[36]
Three-dimensional space can be represented convincingly in art, as in technical drawing, by means other than perspective. Oblique projections, including cavalier perspective (used by French military artists to depict fortifications in the 18th century), were used continuously and ubiquitously by Chinese artists from the first or second centuries until the 18th century. The Chinese acquired the technique from India, which acquired it from Ancient Rome. Oblique projection is seen in Japanese art, such as in the Ukiyo-e paintings of Torii Kiyonaga (1752–1815).[37]
Woodcut from Luca Pacioli's 1509 De divina proportione  with an equilateral triangle on a human face
Camera lucida in use. Scientific American, 1879
Illustration of an artist using a camera obscura. 17th century
Proportion: Leonardo's Vitruvian Man, c. 1490
Brunelleschi's theory of perspective: Masaccio's Trinità, c. 1426–1428, in the Basilica of Santa Maria Novella
Diagram from Leon Battista Alberti's 1435 Della Pittura, with pillars in perspective on a grid
Linear perspective in Piero della Francesca's Flagellation of Christ, c. 1455–1460
Curvilinear perspective: convex mirror in Jan van Eyck's Arnolfini Portrait, 1434
Parmigianino, Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror, c. 1523–1524
Pythagoras with tablet of ratios, in Raphael's The School of Athens, 1509
Oblique projection: Entrance and yard of a yamen. Detail of scroll about Suzhou by Xu Yang, ordered by the Qianlong Emperor. 18th century
Oblique projection: women playing Shogi, Go and Ban-sugoroku board games. Painting by Torii Kiyonaga, Japan, c. 1780
The golden ratio (roughly equal to 1.618) was known to Euclid.[38] The golden ratio has persistently been claimed[39][40][41][42] in modern times to have been used in art and architecture by the ancients in Egypt, Greece and elsewhere, without reliable evidence.[43] The claim may derive from confusion with "golden mean", which to the Ancient Greeks meant "avoidance of excess in either direction", not a ratio.[43] Pyramidologists since the 19th century have argued on dubious mathematical grounds for the golden ratio in pyramid design.[b] The Parthenon, a 5th-century BC temple in Athens, has been claimed to use the golden ratio in its façade and floor plan,[46][47][48] but these claims too are disproved by measurement.[43] The Great Mosque of Kairouan in Tunisia has similarly been claimed to use the golden ratio in its design,[49] but the ratio does not appear in the original parts of the mosque.[50] The historian of architecture Frederik Macody Lund argued in 1919 that the Cathedral of Chartres (12th century), Notre-Dame of Laon (1157–1205) and Notre Dame de Paris (1160) are designed according to the golden ratio,[51] drawing regulator lines to make his case. Other scholars argue that until Pacioli's work in 1509, the golden ratio was unknown to artists and architects.[52] For example, the height and width of the front of Notre-Dame of Laon have the ratio 8/5 or 1.6, not 1.618. Such Fibonacci ratios quickly become hard to distinguish from the golden ratio.[53] After Pacioli, the golden ratio is more definitely discernible in artworks including Leonardo's Mona Lisa.[54]
Another ratio, the only other morphic number,[55] was named the plastic number[c] in 1928 by the Dutch architect Hans van der Laan (originally named le nombre radiant in French).[56] Its value is the solution of the cubic equation
an irrational number which is approximately 1.325. According to the architect Richard Padovan, this has characteristic ratios 3/4 and 1/7, which govern the limits of human perception in relating one physical size to another. Van der Laan used these ratios when designing the 1967 St. Benedictusberg Abbey church in the Netherlands.[56]
Base:hypotenuse(b:a) ratios for the Pyramid of Khufu could be: 1:φ (Kepler triangle), 3:5 (3-4-5 Triangle), or 1:4/π
Supposed ratios: Notre-Dame of Laon
Golden rectangles superimposed on the Mona Lisa
The 1967 St. Benedictusberg Abbey church by Hans van der Laan has plastic number proportions.
Planar symmetries have for millennia been exploited in artworks such as carpets, lattices, textiles and tilings.[58][59][60][61]
Many traditional rugs, whether pile carpets or flatweave kilims, are divided into a central field and a framing border; both can have symmetries, though in handwoven carpets these are often slightly broken by small details, variations of pattern and shifts in colour introduced by the weaver.[58] In kilims from Anatolia, the motifs used are themselves usually symmetrical. The general layout, too, is usually present, with arrangements such as stripes, stripes alternating with rows of motifs, and packed arrays of roughly hexagonal motifs. The field is commonly laid out as a wallpaper with a wallpaper group such as pmm, while the border may be laid out as a frieze of frieze group pm11, pmm2 or pma2. Turkish and Central Asian kilims often have three or more borders in different frieze groups. Weavers certainly had the intention of symmetry, without explicit knowledge of its mathematics.[58]
The mathematician and architectural theorist Nikos Salingaros suggests that the "powerful presence"[57] (aesthetic effect) of a "great carpet"[57] such as the best Konya two-medallion carpets of the 17th century is created by mathematical techniques related to the theories of the architect Christopher Alexander. These techniques include making opposites couple; opposing colour values; differentiating areas geometrically, whether by using complementary shapes or balancing the directionality of sharp angles; providing small-scale complexity (from the knot level upwards) and both small- and large-scale symmetry; repeating elements at a hierarchy of different scales (with a ratio of about 2.7 from each level to the next). Salingaros argues that "all successful carpets satisfy at least nine of the above ten rules", and suggests that it might be possible to create a metric from these rules.[57]
Elaborate lattices are found in Indian Jali work, carved in marble to adorn tombs and palaces.[59] Chinese lattices, always with some symmetry, exist in 14 of the 17 wallpaper groups; they often have mirror, double mirror, or rotational symmetry. Some have a central medallion, and some have a border in a frieze group.[62] Many Chinese lattices have been analysed mathematically by Daniel S. Dye; he identifies Sichuan as the centre of the craft.[63]
Symmetries are prominent in textile arts including quilting,[60] knitting,[64] cross-stitch, crochet,[65] embroidery[66][67] and weaving,[68] where they may be purely decorative or may be marks of status.[69] Rotational symmetry is found in circular structures such as domes; these are sometimes elaborately decorated with symmetric patterns inside and out, as at the 1619 Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque in Isfahan.[70] Items of embroidery and lace work such as tablecloths and table mats, made using bobbins or by tatting, can have a wide variety of reflectional and rotational symmetries which are being explored mathematically.[71]
Islamic art exploits symmetries in many of its artforms, notably in girih tilings. These are formed using a set of five tile shapes, namely a regular decagon, an elongated hexagon, a bow tie, a rhombus, and a regular pentagon. All the sides of these tiles have the same length; and all their angles are multiples of 36° (π/5 radians), offering fivefold and tenfold symmetries. The tiles are decorated with strapwork lines (girih), generally more visible than the tile boundaries. In 2007, the physicists Peter Lu and Paul Steinhardt  argued that girih resembled quasicrystalline Penrose tilings.[72] Elaborate geometric zellige tilework is a distinctive element in Moroccan architecture.[61] Muqarnas vaults are three-dimensional but were designed in two dimensions with drawings of geometrical cells.[73]
Hotamis kilim (detail), central Anatolia, early 19th century
Detail of a Ming Dynasty brocade, using a chamfered hexagonal lattice pattern
Jaali marble lattice at tomb of Salim Chishti, Fatehpur Sikri, India
Symmetries: Florentine Bargello pattern tapestry work
Ceiling of the Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque, Isfahan, 1619
Rotational symmetry in lace: tatting work
Girih tiles: patterns at large and small scales on a spandrel from the Darb-i Imam shrine, Isfahan, 1453
Tessellations: zellige mosaic tiles at Bou Inania Madrasa, Fes, Morocco
The complex geometry and tilings of the muqarnas vaulting in the Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque, Isfahan
Architect's plan of a muqarnas quarter vault. Topkapı Scroll
Tupa Inca tunic from Peru, 1450 –1540, an Andean textile denoting high rank[69]
The Platonic solids and other polyhedra are a recurring theme in Western art. They are found, for instance, in a marble mosaic featuring the small stellated dodecahedron, attributed to Paolo Uccello, in the floor of the San Marco Basilica in Venice;[12] in Leonardo da Vinci's diagrams of regular polyhedra drawn as illustrations for Luca Pacioli's 1509 book The Divine Proportion;[12] as a glass rhombicuboctahedron in Jacopo de Barbari's portrait of Pacioli, painted in 1495;[12] in the truncated polyhedron (and various other mathematical objects) in Albrecht Dürer's engraving Melencolia I;[12] and in Salvador Dalí's painting The Last Supper in which Christ and his disciples are pictured inside a giant dodecahedron.[77]
Albrecht Dürer (1471–1528) was a German Renaissance printmaker who made important contributions to polyhedral literature in his 1525 book, Underweysung der Messung (Education on Measurement), meant to teach the subjects of linear perspective, geometry in architecture, Platonic solids, and regular polygons. Dürer was likely influenced by the works of Luca Pacioli and Piero della Francesca during his trips to Italy.[78] While the examples of perspective in Underweysung der Messung are underdeveloped and contain inaccuracies, there is a detailed discussion of polyhedra. Dürer is also the first to introduce in text the idea of polyhedral nets, polyhedra unfolded to lie flat for printing.[79] Dürer published another influential book on human proportions called Vier Bücher von Menschlicher Proportion (Four Books on Human Proportion) in 1528.[80]
Dürer's well-known engraving Melencolia I depicts a frustrated thinker sitting by a truncated triangular trapezohedron and a magic square.[1] These two objects, and the engraving as a whole, have been the subject of more modern interpretation than the contents of almost any other print,[1][81][82] including a two-volume book by Peter-Klaus Schuster,[83] and an influential discussion in Erwin Panofsky's monograph of Dürer.[1][84]
Salvador Dalí's 1954 painting Corpus Hypercubus uniquely depicts the cross of Christ as an unfolded three-dimensional net for a hypercube, also known as a tesseract: the unfolding of a tesseract into these eight cubes is analogous to unfolding the sides of a cube into a cross shape of six squares, here representing the divine perspective with a four-dimensional regular polyhedron.[74][75] The painting shows the figure of Christ in front of the tessaract; he would normally be shown fixed with nails to the cross, but there are no nails in the painting. Instead, there are four small cubes in front of his body, at the corners of the frontmost of the eight tessaract cubes. The mathematician Thomas Banchoff states that Dalí was trying to go beyond the three-dimensional world, while the poet and art critic Kelly Grovier says that "The painting seems to have cracked the link between the spirituality of Christ's salvation and the materiality of geometric and physical forces. It appears to bridge the divide that many feel separates science from religion."[76]
The first printed illustration of a rhombicuboctahedron, by Leonardo da Vinci, published in De Divina Proportione, 1509
Icosahedron as a part of the monument to Baruch Spinoza, Amsterdam
Traditional Indonesian wax-resist batik designs on cloth combine representational motifs (such as floral and vegetal elements) with abstract and somewhat chaotic elements, including imprecision in applying the wax resist, and random variation introduced by cracking of the wax. Batik designs have a fractal dimension between 1 and 2, varying in different regional styles. For example, the batik of Cirebon has a fractal dimension of 1.1; the batiks of Yogyakarta and Surakarta (Solo) in Central Java have a fractal dimension of 1.2 to 1.5; and the batiks of Lasem on the north coast of Java and of Tasikmalaya in West Java have a fractal dimension between 1.5 and 1.7.[85]
The drip painting works of the modern artist Jackson Pollock are similarly distinctive in their fractal dimension. His 1948 Number 14 has a coastline-like dimension of 1.45, while his later paintings had successively higher fractal dimensions and accordingly more elaborate patterns. One of his last works, Blue Poles, took six months to create, and has the fractal dimension of 1.72.[86]
The astronomer Galileo Galilei in his Il Saggiatore wrote that "[The universe] is written in the language of mathematics, and its characters are triangles, circles, and other geometric figures."[87] Artists who strive and seek to study nature must first, in Galileo's view, fully understand mathematics. Mathematicians, conversely, have sought to interpret and analyse art through the lens of geometry and rationality. The mathematician Felipe Cucker suggests that mathematics, and especially geometry, is a source of rules for "rule-driven artistic creation", though not the only one.[88] Some of the many strands of the resulting complex relationship[89] are described below.
The mathematician Jerry P. King describes mathematics as an art, stating that "the keys to mathematics are beauty and elegance and not dullness and technicality", and that beauty is the motivating force for mathematical research.[90] King cites the mathematician G. H. Hardy's 1940 essay A Mathematician's Apology. In it, Hardy discusses why he finds two theorems of classical times as first rate, namely Euclid's proof there are infinitely many prime numbers, and the proof that the square root of 2 is irrational. King evaluates this last against Hardy's criteria for mathematical elegance: "seriousness, depth, generality, unexpectedness, inevitability, and economy" (King's italics), and describes the proof as "aesthetically pleasing".[91] The Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős agreed that mathematics possessed beauty but considered the reasons beyond explanation: "Why are numbers beautiful? It's like asking why is Beethoven's Ninth Symphony beautiful. If you don't see why, someone can't tell you. I know numbers are beautiful."[92]
Mathematics can be discerned in many of the arts, such as music, dance,[93] painting, architecture, and sculpture. Each of these is richly associated with mathematics.[94] Among the connections to the visual arts, mathematics can provide tools for artists, such as the rules of linear perspective as described by Brook Taylor and Johann Lambert, or the methods of descriptive geometry, now applied in software modelling of solids, dating back to Albrecht Dürer and Gaspard Monge.[95] Artists from Luca Pacioli in the Middle Ages and Leonardo da Vinci and Albrecht Dürer in the Renaissance have made use of and developed mathematical ideas in the pursuit of their artistic work.[94][96] The use of perspective began, despite some embryonic usages in the architecture of Ancient Greece, with Italian painters such as Giotto in the 13th century; rules such as the vanishing point were first formulated by Brunelleschi in about 1413,[6] his theory influencing Leonardo and Dürer. Isaac Newton's work on the optical spectrum influenced Goethe's Theory of Colours and in turn artists such as Philipp Otto Runge, J. M. W. Turner,[97] the Pre-Raphaelites and Wassily Kandinsky.[98][99] Artists may also choose to analyse the symmetry of a scene.[100] Tools may be applied by mathematicians who are exploring art, or artists inspired by mathematics, such as M. C. Escher (inspired by H. S. M. Coxeter) and the architect Frank Gehry, who more tenuously argued that computer aided design enabled him to express himself in a wholly new way.[101]
The artist Richard Wright argues that mathematical objects that can be constructed can be seen either "as processes to simulate phenomena" or as works of "computer art". He considers the nature of mathematical thought, observing that fractals were known to mathematicians for a century before they were recognised as such. Wright concludes by stating that it is appropriate to subject mathematical objects to any methods used to "come to terms with cultural artifacts like art, the tension between objectivity and subjectivity, their metaphorical meanings and the character of representational systems." He gives as instances an image from the Mandelbrot set, an image generated by a cellular automaton algorithm, and a computer-rendered image, and discusses, with reference to the Turing test, whether algorithmic products can be art.[102] Sasho Kalajdzievski's Math and Art: An Introduction to Visual Mathematics takes a similar approach, looking at suitably visual mathematics topics such as tilings, fractals and hyperbolic geometry.[103]
Some of the first works of computer art were created by Desmond Paul Henry's "Drawing Machine 1", an analogue machine based on a bombsight computer and exhibited in 1962.[104][105] The machine was capable of creating complex, abstract, asymmetrical, curvilinear, but repetitive line drawings.[104][106] More recently, Hamid Naderi Yeganeh has created shapes suggestive of real world objects such as fish and birds, using formulae that are successively varied to draw families of curves or angled lines.[107][108][109] Artists such as Mikael Hvidtfeldt Christensen create works of generative or algorithmic art by writing scripts for a software system such as Structure Synth: the artist effectively directs the system to apply a desired combination of mathematical operations to a chosen set of data.[110][111]
Mathematical sculpture by Bathsheba Grossman, 2007
Fractal sculpture: 3D Fraktal 03/H/dd by Hartmut Skerbisch, 2003
Fibonacci word: detail of artwork by Samuel Monnier, 2009
Computer art image produced by Desmond Paul Henry's "Drawing Machine 1", exhibited 1962
A Bird in Flight, by Hamid Naderi Yeganeh, 2016, constructed with a family of mathematical curves.
The mathematician and theoretical physicist Henri Poincaré's Science and Hypothesis was widely read by the Cubists, including Pablo Picasso and Jean Metzinger.[113][114] Being thoroughly familiar with Bernhard Riemann's work on non-Euclidean geometry, Poincaré was more than aware that Euclidean geometry is just one of many possible geometric configurations, rather than as an absolute objective truth. The possible existence of a fourth dimension inspired artists to question classical Renaissance perspective: non-Euclidean geometry became a valid alternative.[115][116][117] The concept that painting could be expressed mathematically, in colour and form, contributed to Cubism, the art movement that led to abstract art.[118] Metzinger, in 1910, wrote that: "[Picasso] lays out a free, mobile perspective, from which that ingenious mathematician Maurice Princet has deduced a whole geometry".[119] Later, Metzinger wrote in his memoirs:
Maurice Princet joined us often ... it was as an artist that he conceptualized mathematics, as an aesthetician that he invoked n-dimensional continuums. He loved to get the artists interested in the new views on space that had been opened up by Schlegel and some others. He succeeded at that.[120]The impulse to make teaching or research models of mathematical forms naturally creates objects that have symmetries and surprising or pleasing shapes. Some of these have inspired artists such as the Dadaists Man Ray,[121] Marcel Duchamp[122] and Max Ernst,[123][124] and following Man Ray, Hiroshi Sugimoto.[125]
Man Ray photographed some of the mathematical models in the Institut Henri Poincaré in Paris, including Objet mathematique (Mathematical object). He noted that this represented Enneper surfaces with constant negative curvature, derived from the pseudo-sphere. This mathematical foundation was important to him, as it allowed him to deny that the object was "abstract", instead claiming that it was as real as the urinal that Duchamp made into a work of art. Man Ray admitted that the object's [Enneper surface] formula "meant nothing to me, but the forms themselves were as varied and authentic as any in nature." He used his photographs of the mathematical models as figures in his series he did on Shakespeare's plays, such as his 1934 painting Antony and Cleopatra.[126] The art reporter Jonathan Keats, writing in ForbesLife, argues that Man Ray photographed "the elliptic paraboloids and conic points in the same sensual light as his pictures of Kiki de Montparnasse", and "ingeniously repurposes the cool calculations of mathematics to reveal the topology of desire".[127] Twentieth century sculptors such as Henry Moore, Barbara Hepworth and Naum Gabo took inspiration from mathematical models.[128] Moore wrote of his 1938 Stringed Mother and Child: "Undoubtedly the source of my stringed figures was the Science Museum ... I was fascinated by the mathematical models I saw there ... It wasn't the scientific study of these models but the ability to look through the strings as with a bird cage and to see one form within another which excited me."[129]
The artists Theo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian founded the De Stijl movement, which they wanted to "establish a visual vocabulary comprised of elementary geometrical forms comprehensible by all and adaptable to any discipline".[130][131] Many of their artworks visibly consist of ruled squares and triangles, sometimes also with circles. De Stijl artists worked in painting, furniture, interior design and architecture.[130] After the breakup of De Stijl, Van Doesburg founded the Avant-garde Art Concret movement, describing his 1929–1930 Arithmetic Composition, a series of four black squares on the diagonal of a squared background, as "a structure that can be controlled, a definite surface without chance elements or individual caprice", yet "not lacking in spirit, not lacking the universal and not ... empty as there is everything which fits the internal rhythm". The art critic Gladys Fabre observes that two progressions are at work in the painting, namely the growing black squares and the alternating backgrounds.[132]
The mathematics of tessellation, polyhedra, shaping of space, and self-reference provided the graphic artist M. C. Escher (1898—1972) with a lifetime's worth of materials for his woodcuts.[133][134] In the Alhambra Sketch, Escher showed that art can be created with polygons or regular shapes such as triangles, squares, and hexagons. Escher used irregular polygons when tiling the plane and often used reflections, glide reflections, and translations to obtain further patterns. Many of his works contain impossible constructions, made using geometrical objects which set up a contradiction between perspective projection and three dimensions, but are pleasant to the human sight. Escher's Ascending and Descending is based on the "impossible staircase" created by the medical scientist Lionel Penrose and his son the mathematician Roger Penrose.[135][136][137]
Some of Escher's many tessellation drawings were inspired by conversations with the mathematician H. S. M. Coxeter on hyperbolic geometry.[138] Escher was especially interested in five specific polyhedra, which appear many times in his work. The Platonic solids—tetrahedrons, cubes, octahedrons, dodecahedrons, and icosahedrons—are especially prominent in Order and Chaos and Four Regular Solids.[139] These stellated figures often reside within another figure which further distorts the viewing angle and conformation of the polyhedrons and provides a multifaceted perspective artwork.[140]
The visual intricacy of mathematical structures such as tessellations and polyhedra have inspired a variety of mathematical artworks. Stewart Coffin makes polyhedral puzzles in rare and beautiful woods; George W. Hart works on the theory of polyhedra and sculpts objects inspired by them; Magnus Wenninger makes "especially beautiful" models of complex stellated polyhedra.[141]
The distorted perspectives of anamorphosis have been explored in art since the sixteenth century, when Hans Holbein the Younger incorporated a severely distorted skull in his 1533 painting The Ambassadors. Many artists since then, including Escher, have make use of anamorphic tricks.[142]
The mathematics of topology has inspired several artists in modern times. The sculptor John Robinson (1935–2007) created works such as Gordian Knot and Bands of Friendship, displaying knot theory in polished bronze.[7] Other works by Robinson explore the topology of toruses. Genesis is based on Borromean rings – a set of three circles, no two of which link but in which the whole structure cannot be taken apart without breaking.[143] The sculptor Helaman Ferguson creates complex surfaces and other topological objects.[144] His works are visual representations of mathematical objects; The Eightfold Way is based on the projective special linear group PSL(2,7), a finite group of 168 elements.[145][146] The sculptor Bathsheba Grossman similarly bases her work on mathematical structures.[147][148] The artist Nelson Saiers incorporates mathematical concepts and theorems in his art from toposes and schemes to the four color theorem and the irrationality of π.[149]
A liberal arts inquiry project examines connections between mathematics and art through the Möbius strip, flexagons, origami and panorama photography.[150]
Mathematical objects including the Lorenz manifold and the hyperbolic plane have been crafted using fiber arts including crochet.[d][152] The American weaver Ada Dietz wrote a 1949 monograph Algebraic Expressions in Handwoven Textiles, defining weaving patterns based on the expansion of multivariate polynomials.[153] The mathematician Daina Taimiņa demonstrated features of the hyperbolic plane by crocheting in 2001.[154] This led Margaret and Christine Wertheim to crochet a coral reef, consisting of many marine animals such as nudibranchs whose shapes are based on hyperbolic planes.[155] 
The mathematician J. C. P. Miller used the Rule 90 cellular automaton to design tapestries depicting both trees and abstract patterns of triangles.[156] The "mathekniticians"[157] Pat Ashforth and Steve Plummer use knitted versions of mathematical objects such as hexaflexagons in their teaching, though their Menger sponge proved too troublesome to knit and was made of plastic canvas instead.[158][159] Their "mathghans" (Afghans for Schools) project introduced knitting into the British mathematics and technology curriculum.[160][161]
Four-dimensional space to Cubism: Esprit Jouffret's 1903 Traité élémentaire de géométrie à quatre dimensions.[162][e]
De Stijl: Theo van Doesburg's geometric Composition I (Still Life), 1916
Pedagogy to art: Magnus Wenninger with some of his stellated polyhedra, 2009
A Möbius strip scarf in crochet, 2007
Anamorphism: The Ambassadors by Hans Holbein the Younger, 1533, with severely distorted skull in foreground
Crocheted coral reef: many animals modelled as hyperbolic planes with varying parameters by Margaret and Christine Wertheim. Föhr Reef, Tübingen, 2013
Modelling is far from the only possible way to illustrate mathematical concepts. Giotto's Stefaneschi Triptych, 1320, illustrates recursion in the form of mise en abyme; the central panel of the triptych contains, lower left, the kneeling figure of Cardinal Stefaneschi, holding up the triptych as an offering.[164] Giorgio de Chirico's metaphysical paintings such as his 1917 Great Metaphysical Interior explore the question of levels of representation in art by depicting paintings within his paintings.[165]
Art can exemplify logical paradoxes, as in some paintings by the surrealist René Magritte, which can be read as semiotic jokes about confusion between levels. In La condition humaine (1933), Magritte depicts an easel (on the real canvas), seamlessly supporting a view through a window which is framed by "real" curtains in the painting. Similarly, Escher's Print Gallery (1956) is a print which depicts a distorted city which contains a gallery which recursively contains the picture, and so ad infinitum.[166] Magritte made use of spheres and cuboids to distort reality in a different way, painting them alongside an assortment of houses in his 1931 Mental Arithmetic as if they were children's building blocks, but house-sized.[167] The Guardian observed that the "eerie toytown image" prophesied Modernism's usurpation of "cosy traditional forms", but also plays with the human tendency to seek patterns in nature.[168]
Salvador Dalí's last painting, The Swallow's Tail (1983), was part of a series inspired by René Thom's catastrophe theory.[170] The Spanish painter and sculptor Pablo Palazuelo (1916–2007) focused on the investigation of form. He developed a style that he described as the geometry of life and the geometry of all nature. Consisting of simple geometric shapes with detailed patterning and coloring, in works such as Angular I and Automnes, Palazuelo expressed himself in geometric transformations.[7]
The artist Adrian Gray practises stone balancing, exploiting friction and the centre of gravity to create striking and seemingly impossible compositions.[171]
Artists, however, do not necessarily take geometry literally. As Douglas Hofstadter writes in his 1980 reflection on human thought, Gödel, Escher, Bach, by way of (among other things) the mathematics of art: "The difference between an Escher drawing and non-Euclidean geometry is that in the latter, comprehensible interpretations can be found for the undefined terms, resulting in a comprehensible total system, whereas for the former, the end result is not reconcilable with one's conception of the world, no matter how long one stares at the pictures." Hofstadter discusses the seemingly paradoxical lithograph Print Gallery by M. C. Escher; it depicts a seaside town containing an art gallery which seems to contain a painting of the seaside town, there being a "strange loop, or tangled hierarchy" to the levels of reality in the image. The artist himself, Hofstadter observes, is not seen; his reality and his relation to the lithograph are not paradoxical.[169] The image's central void has also attracted the interest of mathematicians Bart de Smit and Hendrik Lenstra, who propose that it could contain a Droste effect copy of itself, rotated and shrunk; this would be a further illustration of recursion beyond that noted by Hofstadter.[172][173]
Algorithmic analysis of images of artworks, for example using X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, can reveal information about art. Such techniques can uncover images in layers of paint later covered over by an artist; help art historians to visualize an artwork before it cracked or faded; help to tell a copy from an original, or distinguish the brushstroke style of a master from those of his apprentices.[174][175]
Jackson Pollock's drip painting style[176] has a definite fractal dimension;[177] among the artists who may have influenced Pollock's controlled chaos,[178] Max Ernst painted Lissajous figures directly by swinging a punctured bucket of paint over a canvas.[179]
The computer scientist Neil Dodgson investigated whether Bridget Riley's stripe paintings could be characterised mathematically, concluding that while separation distance could "provide some characterisation" and global entropy worked on some paintings, autocorrelation failed as Riley's patterns were irregular. Local entropy worked best, and correlated well with the description given by the art critic Robert Kudielka.[180]
The American mathematician George Birkhoff's 1933 Aesthetic Measure proposes a quantitative metric of the aesthetic quality of an artwork. It does not attempt to measure the connotations of a work, such as what a painting might mean, but is limited to the "elements of order" of a polygonal figure. Birkhoff first combines (as a sum) five such elements: whether there is a vertical axis of symmetry; whether there is optical equilibrium; how many rotational symmetries it has; how wallpaper-like the figure is; and whether there are unsatisfactory features such as having two vertices too close together. This metric, O, takes a value between −3 and 7. The second metric, C, counts elements of the figure, which for a polygon is the number of different straight lines containing at least one of its sides. Birkhoff then defines his aesthetic measure of an object's beauty as O/C. This can be interpreted as a balance between the pleasure looking at the object gives, and the amount of effort needed to take it in. Birkhoff's proposal has been criticized in various ways, not least for trying to put beauty in a formula, but he never claimed to have done that.[181]
Art has sometimes stimulated the development of mathematics, as when Brunelleschi's theory of perspective in architecture and painting started a cycle of research that led to the work of Brook Taylor and Johann Heinrich Lambert on the mathematical foundations of perspective drawing,[182] and ultimately to the mathematics of projective geometry of Girard Desargues and Jean-Victor Poncelet.[183]
The Japanese paper-folding art of origami has been reworked mathematically by Tomoko Fusé using modules, congruent pieces of paper such as squares, and making them into polyhedra or tilings.[184] Paper-folding was used in 1893 by T. Sundara Rao in his Geometric Exercises in Paper Folding to demonstrate geometrical proofs.[185] The mathematics of paper folding has been explored in Maekawa's theorem,[186] Kawasaki's theorem,[187] and the Huzita–Hatori axioms.[188]
Stimulus to projective geometry: Alberti's diagram showing a circle seen in perspective as an ellipse. Della Pittura, 1435–1436
Mathematical origami: Spring Into Action, by Jeff Beynon, made from a single paper rectangle.[189]
Optical illusions such as the Fraser spiral strikingly demonstrate limitations in human visual perception, creating what the art historian Ernst Gombrich called a "baffling trick." The black and white ropes that appear to form spirals are in fact concentric circles. The mid-twentieth century Op art or optical art style of painting and graphics exploited such effects to create the impression of movement and flashing or vibrating patterns seen in the work of artists such as Bridget Riley, Spyros Horemis,[190] and Victor Vasarely.[191]
A strand of art from Ancient Greece onwards sees God as the geometer of the world, and the world's geometry therefore as sacred. The belief that God created the universe according to a geometric plan has ancient origins. Plutarch attributed the belief to Plato, writing that "Plato said God geometrizes continually" (Convivialium disputationum, liber 8,2). This image has influenced Western thought ever since. The Platonic concept derived in its turn from a Pythagorean notion of harmony in music, where the notes were spaced in perfect proportions, corresponding to the lengths of the lyre's strings; indeed, the Pythagoreans held that everything was arranged by Number. In the same way, in Platonic thought, the regular or Platonic solids dictate the proportions found in nature, and in art.[192][193] An illumination in the 13th-century Codex Vindobonensis shows God drawing out the universe with a pair of compasses, which may refer to a verse in the Old Testament: "When he established the heavens I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the deep" (Proverbs 8:27), .[194] In 1596, the mathematical astronomer Johannes Kepler modelled the universe as a set of nested Platonic solids, determining the relative sizes of the orbits of the planets.[194] William Blake's Ancient of Days (depicting Urizen, Blake's embodiment of reason and law) and his painting of the physicist Isaac Newton, naked, hunched and drawing with a compass, use the symbolism of compasses to critique conventional reason and materialism as narrow-minded.[195][196]
Salvador Dalí's 1954 Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus) depicts the cross as a hypercube, representing the divine perspective with four dimensions rather than the usual three.[75] In Dalí's The Sacrament of the Last Supper (1955) Christ and his disciples are pictured inside a giant dodecahedron.[197]
God the geometer. Codex Vindobonensis, c. 1220
The creation, with the Pantocrator bearing. Bible of St Louis, c. 1220–1240
Johannes Kepler's Platonic solid model of planetary spacing in the Solar System from Mysterium Cosmographicum, 1596
William Blake's The Ancient of Days, 1794
William Blake's Newton, c. 1800

Mathematics (from Ancient Greek  μάθημα; máthēma: 'knowledge, study, learning') is an area of knowledge that includes such topics as numbers (arithmetic and number theory),[1] formulas and related structures (algebra),[2] shapes and the spaces in which they are contained (geometry),[1] and quantities and their changes (calculus and analysis).[3][4][5]  Most mathematical activity involves the use of pure reason to discover or prove the properties of abstract objects, which consist of either abstractions from nature or—in modern mathematics—entities that are stipulated with certain properties, called axioms. A mathematical proof consists of a succession of applications of some deductive rules to already known results, including previously proved theorems, axioms and (in case of abstraction from nature) some basic properties that are considered as true starting points of the theory under consideration.
Mathematics is used in science for modeling phenomena, which then allows predictions to be made from experimental laws. The independence of mathematical truth from any experimentation implies that the accuracy of such predictions depends only on the adequacy of the model. Inaccurate predictions, rather than being caused by incorrect mathematics, imply the need to change the mathematical model used. For example, the perihelion precession of Mercury could only be explained after the emergence of Einstein's general relativity, which replaced Newton's law of gravitation as a better mathematical model.
Mathematics is essential in the sciences, engineering, medicine, finance, computer science and the social sciences. Some areas of mathematics, such as statistics and game theory, are developed in close correlation with their applications and are often grouped under applied mathematics. Other mathematical areas are developed independently from any application (and are therefore called pure mathematics), but practical applications are often discovered later.[6][7] A fitting example is the problem of integer factorization, which goes back to Euclid, but which had no practical application before its use in the RSA cryptosystem (for the security of computer networks).
Historically, the concept of a proof and its associated mathematical rigour first appeared in Greek mathematics, most notably in Euclid's Elements.[8] Since its beginning, mathematics were essentially divided into geometry, and arithmetic (the manipulation of natural numbers and fractions), until the 16th and 17th centuries, when algebra[b] and infinitesimal calculus were introduced as new areas of the subject. Since then, the interaction between mathematical innovations and scientific discoveries has led to a rapid increase in the development of mathematics. At the end of the 19th century, the foundational crisis of mathematics led to the systematization of the axiomatic method. This gave rise to a dramatic increase in the number of mathematics areas and their fields of applications. An example of this is the Mathematics Subject Classification, which lists more than 60 first-level areas of mathematics.
The word mathematics comes from Ancient Greek máthēma (μάθημα), meaning "that which is learnt,"[9] "what one gets to know," hence also "study" and "science". The word for "mathematics" came to have the narrower and more technical meaning "mathematical study" even in Classical times.[10] Its adjective is mathēmatikós (μαθηματικός), meaning "related to learning" or "studious," which likewise further came to mean "mathematical." In particular, mathēmatikḗ tékhnē (μαθηματικὴ τέχνη; Latin: ars mathematica) meant "the mathematical art."
Similarly, one of the two main schools of thought in Pythagoreanism was known as the mathēmatikoi (μαθηματικοί)—which at the time meant "learners" rather than "mathematicians" in the modern sense.
In Latin, and in English until around 1700, the term mathematics more commonly meant "astrology" (or sometimes "astronomy") rather than "mathematics"; the meaning gradually changed to its present one from about 1500 to 1800. This has resulted in several mistranslations. For example, Saint Augustine's warning that Christians should beware of mathematici, meaning astrologers, is sometimes mistranslated as a condemnation of mathematicians.[11]
The apparent plural form in English goes back to the Latin neuter plural mathematica (Cicero), based on the Greek plural ta mathēmatiká (τὰ μαθηματικά), used by Aristotle (384–322 BC), and meaning roughly "all things mathematical", although it is plausible that English borrowed only the adjective mathematic(al) and formed the noun mathematics anew, after the pattern of physics and metaphysics, which were inherited from Greek.[12] In English, the noun mathematics takes a singular verb. It is often shortened to maths or, in North America, math.[13]
Before the Renaissance, mathematics was divided into two main areas: arithmetic — regarding the manipulation of numbers, and geometry — regarding the study of shapes. Some types of pseudoscience, such as numerology and astrology, were not then clearly distinguished from mathematics.
During the Renaissance, two more areas appeared. Mathematical notation led to algebra, which, roughly speaking, consists of the study and the manipulation of formulas. Calculus, consisting of the two subfields infinitesimal calculus and integral calculus, is the study of continuous functions, which model the typically nonlinear relationships between varying quantities (variables). This division into four main areas — arithmetic, geometry, algebra, calculus[verification needed] — endured until the end of the 19th century. Areas such as celestial mechanics and solid mechanics were often then considered as part of mathematics, but now are considered as belonging to physics. Some subjects developed during this period predate mathematics and are divided into such areas as probability theory and combinatorics, which only later became regarded as autonomous areas.
At the end of the 19th century, the foundational crisis in mathematics and the resulting systematization of the axiomatic method led to an explosion of new areas of mathematics. Today, the Mathematics Subject Classification contains no less than sixty-four first-level areas. Some of these areas correspond to the older division, as is true regarding number theory (the modern name for higher arithmetic) and geometry. (However, several other first-level areas have "geometry" in their names or are otherwise commonly considered part of geometry.) Algebra and calculus do not appear as first-level areas but are respectively split into several first-level areas. Other first-level areas emerged during the 20th century (for example category theory; homological algebra, and computer science) or had not previously been considered as mathematics, such as Mathematical logic and foundations (including model theory, computability theory, set theory, proof theory, and algebraic logic).
Number theory began with the manipulation of numbers, that is, natural numbers 



(

N

)
,


{\displaystyle (\mathbb {N} ),}

 and later expanded to integers 



(

Z

)


{\displaystyle (\mathbb {Z} )}

 and rational numbers 



(

Q

)
.


{\displaystyle (\mathbb {Q} ).}

 Formerly, number theory was called arithmetic, but nowadays this term is mostly used for numerical calculations.
Many easily-stated number problems have solutions that require sophisticated methods from across mathematics. One prominent example is Fermat's last theorem. This conjecture was stated in 1637 by Pierre de Fermat, but it was proved only in 1994 by Andrew Wiles, who used tools including scheme theory from algebraic geometry, category theory and homological algebra. Another example is Goldbach's conjecture, which asserts that every even integer greater than 2 is the sum of two prime numbers. Stated in 1742 by Christian Goldbach, it remains unproven to this day despite considerable effort.
Number theory includes several subareas, including analytic number theory, algebraic number theory, geometry of numbers (method oriented), diophantine equations, and transcendence theory (problem oriented).
Geometry is one of the oldest branches of mathematics. It started with empirical recipes concerning shapes, such as lines, angles and circles, which were developed mainly for the needs of surveying and architecture, but has since blossomed out into many other subfields.
A fundamental innovation was the introduction of the concept of proofs by ancient Greeks, with the requirement that every assertion must be proved. For example, it is not sufficient to verify by measurement that, say, two lengths are equal; their equality must be proven via reasoning from previously accepted results (theorems) and a few basic statements. The basic statements are not subject to proof because they are self-evident (postulates), or they are a part of the definition of the subject of study (axioms). This principle, which is foundational for all mathematics, was first elaborated for geometry, and was systematized by Euclid around 300 BC in his book Elements.
The resulting Euclidean geometry is the study of shapes and their arrangements constructed from lines, planes and circles in the Euclidean plane (plane geometry) and the (three-dimensional) Euclidean space.[c]
Euclidean geometry was developed without change of methods or scope until the 17th century, when René Descartes introduced what is now called Cartesian coordinates. This was a major change of paradigm, since instead of defining real numbers as lengths of line segments (see number line), it allowed the representation of points using their coordinates (which are numbers). This allows one to use algebra (and later, calculus) to solve geometrical problems. This split geometry into two new subfields: synthetic geometry, which uses purely geometrical methods, and analytic geometry, which uses coordinates systemically.
Analytic geometry allows the study of curves that are not related to circles and lines. Such curves can be defined as graph of functions (whose study led to differential geometry). They can also be defined as implicit equations, often polynomial equations (which spawned algebraic geometry). Analytic geometry also makes it possible to consider spaces of higher than three dimensions.
In the 19th century, mathematicians discovered non-Euclidean geometries, which do not follow the parallel postulate. By questioning the truth of that postulate, this discovery joins Russel's paradox as revealing the foundational crisis of mathematics. This aspect of the crisis was solved by systematizing the axiomatic method, and adopting that the truth of the chosen axioms is not a mathematical problem. In turn, the axiomatic method allows for the study of various geometries obtained either by changing the axioms or by considering properties that are invariant under specific transformations of the space.
Nowadays, the subareas of geometry include:
Pythagorean theorem
Conic Sections
Elliptic curve
Triangle on a paraboloid
Torus
Fractal
Algebra is the art of manipulating equations and formulas. Diophantus (3rd century) and al-Khwarizmi (9th century) were the two main precursors of algebra. The first one solved some equations involving unknown natural numbers by deducing new relations until he obtained the solution. The second one introduced systematic methods for transforming equations (such as moving a term from a side of an equation into the other side). The term algebra is derived from the Arabic word al-jabr meaning "the reunion for broken parts"[14] that he used for naming one of these methods in the title of his main treatise.
Algebra became an area in its own right only with François Viète (1540–1603), who introduced the use of letters (variables) for representing unknown or unspecified numbers. This allows mathematicians to describe the operations that have to be done on the numbers represented using mathematical formulas.
Until the 19th century, algebra consisted mainly of the study of linear equations (presently linear algebra), and polynomial equations in a single unknown, which were called algebraic equations (a term that is still in use, although it may be ambiguous). During the 19th century, mathematicians began to use variables to represent things other than numbers (such as matrices, modular integers, and geometric transformations), on which generalizations of arithmetic operations are often valid. The concept of algebraic structure addresses this, consisting of a set whose elements are unspecified, of operations acting on the elements of the set, and rules that these operations must follow. Due to this change, the scope of algebra grew to include the study of algebraic structures. This object of algebra was called modern algebra or abstract algebra. (The latter term appears mainly in an educational context, in opposition to elementary algebra, which is concerned with the older way of manipulating formulas.)
Some types of algebraic structures have useful and often fundamental properties, in many areas of mathematics. Their study became autonomous parts of algebra, and include:
The study of types of algebraic structures as mathematical objects is the object of universal algebra and category theory. The latter applies to every mathematical structure (not only algebraic ones). At its origin, it was introduced, together with homological algebra for allowing the algebraic study of non-algebraic objects such as topological spaces; this particular area of application is called algebraic topology.
Calculus, formerly called infinitesimal calculus, was introduced independently and simultaneously by 17th-century mathematicians Newton and Leibniz. It is fundamentally the study of the relationship of variables that depend on each other. Calculus was expanded in the 18th century by Euler with the introduction of the concept of a function and many other results. Presently, "calculus" refers mainly to the elementary part of this theory, and "analysis" is commonly used for advanced parts.
Analysis is further subdivided into real analysis, where variables represent real numbers, and complex analysis, where variables represent complex numbers. Analysis includes many subareas shared by other areas of mathematics which include:
Discrete mathematics, broadly speaking, is the study of finite mathematical objects. Because the objects of study here are discrete, the methods of calculus and mathematical analysis do not directly apply.[d] Algorithms – especially their implementation and computational complexity – play a major role in discrete mathematics.
Discrete mathematics includes:
The four color theorem and optimal sphere packing were two major problems of discrete mathematics solved in the second half of the 20th century. The P versus NP problem, which remains open to this day, is also important for discrete mathematics, since its solution would impact much of it.[further explanation needed]
The two subjects of mathematical logic and set theory have both belonged to mathematics since the end of the 19th century. Before this period, sets were not considered to be mathematical objects, and logic, although used for mathematical proofs, belonged to philosophy, and was not specifically studied by mathematicians.
Before Cantor's study of infinite sets, mathematicians were reluctant to consider actually infinite collections, and considered infinity to be the result of endless enumeration. Cantor's work offended many mathematicians not only by considering actually infinite sets, but by showing that this implies different sizes of infinity (see Cantor's diagonal argument) and the existence of mathematical objects that cannot be computed, or even explicitly described (for example, Hamel bases of the real numbers over the rational numbers). This led to the controversy over Cantor's set theory.
In the same period, various areas of mathematics concluded the former intuitive definitions of the basic mathematical objects were insufficient for ensuring mathematical rigour. Examples of such intuitive definitions are "a set is a collection of objects", "natural number is what is used for counting", "a point is a shape with a zero length in every direction", "a curve is a trace left by a moving point", etc.
This became the foundational crisis of mathematics.[15] It was eventually solved in mainstream mathematics by systematizing the axiomatic method inside a formalized set theory. Roughly speaking, each mathematical object is defined by the set of all similar objects and the properties that these objects must have. For example, in Peano arithmetic, the natural numbers are defined by "zero is a number", "each number has a unique successor", "each number but zero has a unique predecessor", and some rules of reasoning. The "nature" of the objects defined this way is a philosophical problem that mathematicians leave to philosophers, even if many mathematicians have opinions on this nature, and use their opinion—sometimes called "intuition"—to guide their study and proofs.
This approach allows considering "logics" (that is, sets of allowed deducing rules), theorems, proofs, etc. as mathematical objects, and to prove theorems about them. For example, Gödel's incompleteness theorems assert, roughly speaking that, in every theory that contains the natural numbers, there are theorems that are true (that is provable in a larger theory), but not provable inside the theory.
This approach to the foundations of mathematics was challenged during the first half of the 20th century by mathematicians led by Brouwer, who promoted intuitionistic logic, which explicitly lacks the law of excluded middle.
These problems and debates led to a wide expansion of mathematical logic, with subareas such as model theory (modeling some logical theories inside other theories), proof theory, type theory, computability theory and computational complexity theory. Although these aspects of mathematical logic were introduced before the rise of computers, their use in compiler design, program certification, proof assistants and other aspects of computer science, contributed in turn to the expansion of these logical theories.[16]
Applied mathematics has significant overlap with the discipline of statistics, whose theory is formulated mathematically, especially probability theory.[definition needed] Statisticians (working as part of a research project) "create data that makes sense" with random sampling and with randomized experiments;[17] the design of a statistical sample or experiment specifies the analysis of the data (before the data becomes available). When reconsidering data from experiments and samples or when analyzing data from observational studies, statisticians "make sense of the data" using the art of modelling and the theory of inference—with model selection and estimation; the estimated models and consequential predictions should be tested on new data.[clarification needed][e]
Statistical theory studies decision problems such as minimizing the risk (expected loss) of a statistical action, such as using a procedure in, for example, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, and selecting the best. In these traditional areas of mathematical statistics, a statistical-decision problem is formulated by minimizing an objective function, like expected loss or cost, under specific constraints: For example, designing a survey often involves minimizing the cost of estimating a population mean with a given level of confidence.[18] Because of its use of optimization, the mathematical theory of statistics overlaps with other decision sciences, such as operations research, control theory, and mathematical economics.[19]
Computational mathematics is the study of mathematical problems that are typically too large for human, numerical capacity. Numerical analysis studies methods for problems in analysis using functional analysis and approximation theory; numerical analysis broadly includes the study of approximation and discretization with special focus on rounding errors. Numerical analysis and, more broadly, scientific computing also study non-analytic topics of mathematical science, especially algorithmic-matrix-and-graph theory. Other areas of computational mathematics include computer algebra and symbolic computation.
The history of mathematics is an ever-growing series of abstractions. Evolutionarily speaking, the first abstraction to ever be discovered, one shared by many animals,[20] was probably that of numbers: the realization that, for example, a collection of two apples and a collection of two oranges (say) have something in common, namely that there are two of them. As evidenced by tallies found on bone, in addition to recognizing how to count physical objects, prehistoric peoples may have also known how to count abstract quantities, like time—days, seasons, or years.[21][22]
Evidence for more complex mathematics does not appear until around 3000 BC, when the Babylonians and Egyptians began using arithmetic, algebra, and geometry for taxation and other financial calculations, for building and construction, and for astronomy.[23] The oldest mathematical texts from Mesopotamia and Egypt are from 2000 to 1800 BC. Many early texts mention Pythagorean triples and so, by inference, the Pythagorean theorem seems to be the most ancient and widespread mathematical concept after basic arithmetic and geometry. It is in Babylonian mathematics that elementary arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division) first appear in the archaeological record. The Babylonians also possessed a place-value system and used a sexagesimal numeral system which is still in use today for measuring angles and time.[24]
In the 6th century BC, Greek mathematics began to emerge as a distinct discipline and some Ancient Greeks such as the Pythagoreans appeared to have considered it a subject in its own right.[25] Around 300 BC, Euclid organized mathematical knowledge by way of postulates and first principles, which evolved into the axiomatic method that is used in mathematics today, consisting of definition, axiom, theorem, and proof.[26] His book, Elements, is widely considered the most successful and influential textbook of all time.[27] The greatest mathematician of antiquity is often held to be Archimedes (c. 287–212 BC) of Syracuse.[28] He developed formulas for calculating the surface area and volume of solids of revolution and used the method of exhaustion to calculate the area under the arc of a parabola with the summation of an infinite series, in a manner not too dissimilar from modern calculus.[29] Other notable achievements of Greek mathematics are conic sections (Apollonius of Perga, 3rd century BC),[30] trigonometry (Hipparchus of Nicaea, 2nd century BC),[31] and the beginnings of algebra (Diophantus, 3rd century AD).[32]
The Hindu–Arabic numeral system and the rules for the use of its operations, in use throughout the world today, evolved over the course of the first millennium AD in India and were transmitted to the Western world via Islamic mathematics. Other notable developments of Indian mathematics include the modern definition and approximation of sine and cosine, and an early form of infinite series.
During the Golden Age of Islam, especially during the 9th and 10th centuries, mathematics saw many important innovations building on Greek mathematics. The most notable achievement of Islamic mathematics was the development of algebra. Other achievements of the Islamic period include advances in spherical trigonometry and the addition of the decimal point to the Arabic numeral system.[33] Many notable mathematicians from this period were Persian, such as Al-Khwarismi, Omar Khayyam and Sharaf al-Dīn al-Ṭūsī.
During the early modern period, mathematics began to develop at an accelerating pace in Western Europe. The development of calculus by Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz in the 17th century revolutionized mathematics. Leonhard Euler was the most notable mathematician of the 18th century, contributing numerous theorems and discoveries. Perhaps the foremost mathematician of the 19th century was the German mathematician Carl Gauss, who made numerous contributions to fields such as algebra, analysis, differential geometry, matrix theory, number theory, and statistics. In the early 20th century, Kurt Gödel transformed mathematics by publishing his incompleteness theorems, which show in part that any consistent axiomatic system—if powerful enough to describe arithmetic—will contain true propositions that cannot be proved.
Mathematics has since been greatly extended, and there has been a fruitful interaction between mathematics and science, to the benefit of both. Mathematical discoveries continue to be made to this very day. According to Mikhail B. Sevryuk, in the January 2006 issue of the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society, "The number of papers and books included in the Mathematical Reviews database since 1940 (the first year of operation of MR) is now more than 1.9 million, and more than 75 thousand items are added to the database each year. The overwhelming majority of works in this ocean contain new mathematical theorems and their proofs."[34]
Mathematical notation is widely used in mathematics, science, and engineering for representing complex concepts and properties in a concise, unambiguous and accurate way.
Mathematical notation consists of using symbols for representing operations, unspecified numbers, relations and any other mathematical objects, and assembling them into expressions and formulas.
More precisely, numbers and other mathematical objects are represented by symbols called variables, which are generally Latin or Greek letters, and include often subscripts. Operation and relations are generally represented by specific glyphs, such as + (plus), × (multiplication), 



∫


{\textstyle \int }

 (integral), = (equal), < (less than). All these symbols are generally grouped according to specific rules to form expressions and formulas. Normally, expressions and formulas do not appear alone, but are included in sentences of the current language, where expressions play the role of noun phrases and formulas play the role of clauses.
Many technical terms used in mathematics are often neologisms, such as polynomial and homeomorphism. Many other technical terms are words of the common language that are used in an accurate meaning that may differs slightly from their common meaning. For example, in mathematics, "or" means "one, the other or both", while, in common language, it is either amiguous or means "one or the other but not both" (in mathematics, the latter is called "exclusive or").
Also, many mathematical terms are common words that are used with a completely different meaning. This may lead to sentences that are correct and true mathematical assertions, but appear to be nonsense to people who do not have the required background. For example, "every free module is flat" and "a field is always a ring".
There is still a philosophical debate whether mathematics is a science. However, in practice, mathematicians are typically grouped with scientists, and mathematics shares much in common with the physical sciences. Like them, it is falsifiable, which means in mathematics that, if a result or a theory is wrong, this can be proved by providing a counterexample. Similarly as in science, theories and results (theorems) are often obtained from experimentation.[35] In mathematics, the experimentation may consist of computation on selected examples or of the study of figures or other representations of mathematical objects (often mind representations without physical support). For example, when asked how he came about his theorems, Gauss (one of the greatest mathematicians of the 19th century) once replied "durch planmässiges Tattonieren" (through systematic experimentation).[f] 
However, some authors emphasize that mathematics differs from the modern notion of science by not relying on empirical evidence.[36][37][38][39]
What precedes is only one aspect of the relationship between mathematics and other sciences. Other aspects are considered in the next subsections.
Until the end of the 19th century, the development of mathematics was mainly motivated by the needs of technology and science, and there was no clear distinction between pure and applied mathematics. For example, the natural numbers and arithmetic were introduced for the need of counting, and geometry was motivated by surveying, architecture and astronomy. Later, Isaac Newton introduced infinitesimal calculus for explaining the movement of the planets with his law of gravitation. Moreover, most mathematicians were also scientists, and many scientists were also mathematicians. However, a notable exception occurred in Ancient Greece; see Pure mathematics § Ancient Greece.
In the second half ot the 19th century, new mathematical theories were introduced which were not related with the physical world (at least at that time), in particular, non-Euclidean geometries and Cantor's theory of transfinite numbers. This was one of the starting points of the foundational crisis of mathematics, which was eventually solved by the systematization of the axiomatic method for defining mathematical structures.
So, many mathematicians focused their research on internal problems, that is, pure mathematics, and this led to split mathematics into pure mathematics and applied mathematics, the latter being often considered as having a lower value.
During the second half of the 20th century, it appeared that many theories issued from applications are also interesting from the point of view of pure mathematics, and that many results of pure mathematics have applications outside mathematics (see next section); in turn, the study of these applications may give new insights on the "pure theory". An example of the first case is the theory of distributions, introduced by Laurent Schwartz for validating computations done in quantum mechanics, which became immediately an important tool of (pure) mathematical analysis. An example of the second case is the decidability of the first-order theory of the real numbers, a problem of pure mathematics that was proved true by Alfred Tarski, with an algorithm that is definitely impossible to implement, because of a computational complexity that is much too high. For getting an algorithm that can be implemented and can solve systems of polynomial equations and inequalities, George Collins introduced the cylindrical algebraic decomposition that became a fundamental tool in real algebraic geometry.
So, the distinction between pure and applied mathematics is presently more a question of personal research aim of mathematicians than a division of mathematics into broad areas. The Mathematics Subject Classification does not mention "pure mathematics" nor "applied mathematics". However, these terms are still used in names of some university departments, such as at the Faculty of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge.
The unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics[7] is a phenomenon that was named and first made explicit by physicist Eugene Wigner. It is the fact that many mathematical theories, even the "purest" have applications outside their initial object. These applications may be completely outside their initial area of mathematics, and may concern physical phenomena that were completely unknown when the mathematical theory was introduced.
A famous example is the prime factorization of natural numbers that was discovered more than 2,000 years before its common use for secure internet communications 
through the RSA cryptosystem.
Another historical example is the theory of ellipses. They were studied by the ancient Greek mathematicians as conic sections (that is, intersections of cones with planes). It is almost 2,000 years later that Johannes Kepler discovered that the trajectories of the planets are ellipses.
In the 19th century, the internal development of geometry (pure mathematics) lead to define and study non-Euclidean geometries, spaces of dimension higher than three and manifolds. At this time, these concepts seemed totally disconnected from the physical reality, but at the beginning of the 20th century, Albert Einstein developed the theory of relativity that uses fundamentally these concepts. In particular, spacetime of the special relativity is a non-Euclidean space of dimension four, and spacetime of the general relativity is a (curved) manifold of dimension four.
Similar examples of unexpected applications of mathematical theories can be found in many areas of mathematics.
Another striking aspect of the interaction between mathematics and physics is when mathematics drives research in physics. This is illustrated by the discoveries of the positron and the baryon 




Ω

−


.


{\displaystyle \Omega ^{-}.}

 In both cases, the equations of the theories had unexplained solutions, which led to conjecture the existence of a unknown particle, and to search these particles. In both cases, these particles were discovered a few years later by specific experiments.[40]
The connection between abstract mathematics and material reality has led to philosophical debates since at least the time of Pythagoras. The ancient philosopher Plato argued this was possible because material reality reflects abstract objects that exist outside time. As a result, the view that mathematical objects somehow exist on their own in abstraction is often referred to as Platonism. Although most mathematicians don't typically concern themselves with philosophical questions, they may be generally considered as Platonists, since they think of and talk of their objects of study as real objects.[41] Nevertheless, Platonism and the concurrent views on abstraction do not explain the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics.
There is no general consensus about the exact definition or epistemological status of mathematics.[42][43] A great many professional mathematicians take no interest in a definition of mathematics, or consider it undefinable.[42] There is not even consensus on whether mathematics is an art or a science.[43] Some just say, "Mathematics is what mathematicians do."[42]
Aristotle defined mathematics as "the science of quantity" and this definition prevailed until the 18th century. However, Aristotle also noted a focus on quantity alone may not distinguish mathematics from sciences like physics; in his view, abstraction and studying quantity as a property "separable in thought" from real instances set mathematics apart.[44]
In the 19th century, when the study of mathematics increased in rigor and began to address abstract topics such as group theory and projective geometry, which have no clear-cut relation to quantity and measurement, mathematicians and philosophers began to propose a variety of new definitions.[45] To this day, philosophers continue to tackle questions in philosophy of mathematics, such as the nature of mathematical proof.[46]
Mathematicians strive to develop their results with systematic reasoning in order to avoid mistaken "theorems". These false proofs often arise from fallible intuitions and have been common in mathematics' history. To allow deductive reasoning, some basic assumptions need to be admitted explicitly as axioms. Traditionally, these axioms were selected on the grounds of common-sense, but modern axioms typically express formal guarantees for primitive notions, such as simple objects and relations.
The validity of a mathematical proof is fundamentally a matter of rigour, and misunderstanding rigor is a notable cause for some common misconceptions about mathematics. Mathematical language may give more precision than in everyday speech to ordinary words like or and only. Other words such as open and field are given new meanings for specific mathematical concepts. Sometimes, mathematicians even coin entirely new words (e.g. homeomorphism). This technical vocabulary is both precise and compact, making it possible to mentally process complex ideas. Mathematicians refer to this precision of language and logic as "rigor".
The rigor expected in mathematics has varied over time: the ancient Greeks expected detailed arguments, but in Isaac Newton's time, the methods employed were less rigorous (not because of a different conception of mathematics, but because of the lack of the mathematical methods that are required for reaching rigor). Problems inherent in Newton's approach were solved only in the second half of the 19th century, with the formal definitions of real numbers, limits and integrals. Later in the early 20th century, Bertrand Russell and Alfred North Whitehead would publish their Principia Mathematica, an attempt to show that all mathematical concepts and statements could be defined, then proven entirely through symbolic logic. This was part of a wider philosophical program known as logicism, which sees mathematics as primarily an extension of logic.
Despite mathematics' concision, many proofs require hundreds of pages to express. The emergence of computer-assisted proofs has allowed proof lengths to further expand. Assisted proofs may be erroneous if the proving software has flaws and if they are lengthy, difficult to check.[g][47] On the other hand, proof assistants allow for the verification of details that cannot be given in a hand-written proof, and provide certainty of the correctness of long proofs such as that of the 255-page Feit–Thompson theorem.[h]
The validity of a mathematical theorem relies only on the rigor of its proof, which could theoretically be done automatically by a computer program. This does not mean that there is no place for creativity in a mathematical work. On the contrary, many important mathematical results (theorems) are solutions of problems that other mathematicians failed to solve, and the invention of a way for solving them may be a fundamental way of the solving process. An extreme example is Apery's theorem: Roger Apery provided only the ideas for a proof, and the formal proof was given only several months later by three other mathematicians.
Creativity and rigor are not the only psychological aspects of the activity of mathematicians.
Many mathematicians see their activity as a game, more specifically as solving puzzles. This aspect of mathematical activity is emphasized in recreational mathematics.
Many mathematicians give also an aesthetic value to mathematics. Like beauty, it is hard to define, it is commonly related to elegance, which involves qualities like simplicity, symmetry, completeness, and generality. G. H. Hardy in A Mathematician's Apology expressed the belief that the aesthetic considerations are, in themselves, sufficient to justify the study of pure mathematics. He also identified other criteria such as significance, unexpectedness, and inevitability, which contribute to mathematical aesthetic.[49]
Paul Erdős expressed this sentiment more ironically by speaking of "The Book", a supposed divine collection of the most beautiful proofs. The 1998 book Proofs from THE BOOK, inspired by Erdős, is a collection of particularly succinct and revelatory mathematical arguments. Some examples of particularly elegant results included are Euclid's proof that there are infinitely many prime numbers and the fast Fourier transform for harmonic analysis.
Some feel that to consider mathematics a science is to downplay its artistry and history in the seven traditional liberal arts.[50] One way this difference of viewpoint plays out is in the philosophical debate as to whether mathematical results are created (as in art) or discovered (as in science).[40] The popularity of recreational mathematics is another sign of the pleasure many find in solving mathematical questions.
In the 20th century, the mathematician L. E. J. Brouwer even initiated a philosophical perspective known as intuitionism, which primarily identifies mathematics with certain creative processes in the mind.[51] Intuitionism is in turn one flavor of a stance known as constructivism, which only considers a mathematical object valid if it can be directly constructed, not merely guaranteed by logic indirectly. This leads committed constructivists to reject certain results, particularly arguments like existential proofs based on the law of excluded middle.[52]
In the end, neither constructivism nor intuitionism displaced classical mathematics or achieved mainstream acceptance. However, these programs have motivated specific developments, such as intuitionistic logic and other foundational insights, which are appreciated in their own right.[52]
Mathematics has a remarkable ability to cross cultural boundaries and time periods. As a human activity, the practice of mathematics has a social side, which includes education, careers, recognition, popularization, and so on. In education, mathematics is a core part of the curriculum. While the content of courses varies, many countries in the world teach mathematics to students for significant amounts of time.[53]
The most prestigious award in mathematics is the Fields Medal,[54][55] established in 1936 and awarded every four years (except around World War II) to up to four individuals.[56][57] It is considered the mathematical equivalent of the Nobel Prize.[57]
Other prestigious mathematics awards include:
A famous list of 23 open problems, called "Hilbert's problems", was compiled in 1900 by German mathematician David Hilbert.[64] This list has achieved great celebrity among mathematicians[65][better source needed], and, as of 2022, at least thirteen of the problems (depending how some are interpreted) have been solved.[66]
A new list of seven important problems, titled the "Millennium Prize Problems", was published in 2000. Only one of them, the Riemann hypothesis, duplicates one of Hilbert's problems. A solution to any of these problems carries a 1 million dollar reward.[67] To date, only one of these problems, the Poincaré conjecture, has been solved.[68]

Mathematics and art are related in a variety of ways. Mathematics has itself been described as an art motivated by beauty. Mathematics can be discerned in arts such as music, dance, painting, architecture, sculpture, and textiles. This article focuses, however, on mathematics in the visual arts.
Mathematics and art have a long historical relationship. Artists have used mathematics since the 4th century BC when the Greek sculptor Polykleitos wrote his Canon, prescribing proportions conjectured to have been based on the ratio 1:√2 for the ideal male nude. Persistent popular claims have been made for the use of the golden ratio in ancient art and architecture, without reliable evidence. In the Italian Renaissance, Luca Pacioli wrote the influential treatise De divina proportione (1509), illustrated with woodcuts by Leonardo da Vinci, on the use of the golden ratio in art. Another Italian painter, Piero della Francesca, developed Euclid's ideas on perspective in treatises such as De Prospectiva Pingendi, and in his paintings. The engraver Albrecht Dürer made many references to mathematics in his work Melencolia I. In modern times, the graphic artist M. C. Escher made intensive use of tessellation and hyperbolic geometry, with the help of the mathematician H. S. M. Coxeter, while the De Stijl movement led by Theo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian explicitly embraced geometrical forms. Mathematics has inspired textile arts such as quilting, knitting, cross-stitch, crochet, embroidery, weaving, Turkish and other carpet-making, as well as kilim. In Islamic art, symmetries are evident in forms as varied as Persian girih and Moroccan zellige tilework, Mughal jali pierced stone screens, and widespread muqarnas vaulting.
Mathematics has directly influenced art with conceptual tools such as linear perspective, the analysis of symmetry, and mathematical objects such as polyhedra and the Möbius strip. Magnus Wenninger creates colourful stellated polyhedra, originally as models for teaching. Mathematical concepts such as recursion and logical paradox can be seen in paintings by René Magritte and in engravings by M. C. Escher. Computer art often makes use of fractals including the Mandelbrot set, and sometimes explores other mathematical objects such as cellular automata. Controversially, the artist David Hockney has argued that artists from the Renaissance onwards made use of the camera lucida to draw precise representations of scenes; the architect Philip Steadman similarly argued that Vermeer used the camera obscura in his distinctively observed paintings.
Other relationships include the algorithmic analysis of artworks by X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, the finding that traditional batiks from different regions of Java have distinct fractal dimensions, and stimuli to mathematics research, especially Filippo Brunelleschi's theory of perspective, which eventually led to Girard Desargues's projective geometry. A persistent view, based ultimately on the Pythagorean notion of harmony in music, holds that everything was arranged by Number, that God is the geometer of the world, and that therefore the world's geometry is sacred.

Polykleitos the elder (c. 450–420 BC) was a Greek sculptor from the school of Argos, and a contemporary of Phidias. His works and statues consisted mainly of bronze and were of athletes. According to the philosopher and mathematician Xenocrates, Polykleitos is ranked as one of the most important sculptors of classical antiquity for his work on the Doryphorus and the statue of Hera in the Heraion of Argos.[3] While his sculptures may not be as famous as those of Phidias, they are much admired. In the his Canon, a treatise he wrote designed to document the "perfect" body proportions of the male nude, Polykleitos gives us a mathematical approach towards sculpturing the human body.[3]
The Canon itself has been lost but it is conjectured that Polykleitos used a sequence of proportions where each length is that of the diagonal of a square drawn on its predecessor, 1:√2 (about 1:1.4142).[4]
The influence of the Canon of Polykleitos is immense in Classical Greek, Roman, and Renaissance sculpture, many sculptors following Polykleitos's prescription. While none of Polykleitos's original works survive, Roman copies demonstrate his ideal of physical perfection and mathematical precision. Some scholars argue that Pythagorean thought influenced the Canon of Polykleitos.[5] The Canon applies the basic mathematical concepts of Greek geometry, such as the ratio, proportion, and symmetria (Greek for "harmonious proportions") and turns it into a system capable of describing the human form through a series of continuous geometric progressions.[4]
In classical times, rather than making distant figures smaller with linear perspective, painters sized objects and figures according to their thematic importance. In the Middle Ages, some artists used reverse perspective for special emphasis. The Muslim mathematician Alhazen (Ibn al-Haytham) described a theory of optics in his Book of Optics in 1021, but never applied it to art.[6] The Renaissance saw a rebirth of Classical Greek and Roman culture and ideas, among them the study of mathematics to understand nature and the arts. Two major motives drove artists in the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance towards mathematics. First, painters needed to figure out how to depict three-dimensional scenes on a two-dimensional canvas. Second, philosophers and artists alike were convinced that mathematics was the true essence of the physical world and that the entire universe, including the arts, could be explained in geometric terms.[7]
The rudiments of perspective arrived with Giotto (1266/7 – 1337), who attempted to draw in perspective using an algebraic method to determine the placement of distant lines. In 1415, the Italian architect Filippo Brunelleschi and his friend Leon Battista Alberti demonstrated the geometrical method of applying perspective in Florence, using similar triangles as formulated by Euclid, to find the apparent height of distant objects.[8][9] Brunelleschi's own perspective paintings are lost, but Masaccio's painting of the Holy Trinity shows his principles at work.[6][10][11]
The Italian painter Paolo Uccello (1397–1475) was fascinated by perspective, as shown in his paintings of The Battle of San Romano (c. 1435–1460): broken lances lie conveniently along perspective lines.[12][13]
The painter Piero della Francesca (c. 1415–1492) exemplified this new shift in Italian Renaissance thinking. He was an expert mathematician and geometer, writing books on solid geometry and perspective, including De prospectiva pingendi (On Perspective for Painting), Trattato d'Abaco (Abacus Treatise), and De quinque corporibus regularibus (On the Five Regular Solids).[14][15][16] The historian Vasari in his Lives of the Painters calls Piero the "greatest geometer of his time, or perhaps of any time."[17] Piero's interest in perspective can be seen in his paintings including the Polyptych of Perugia,[18] the San Agostino altarpiece and The Flagellation of Christ. His work on geometry influenced later mathematicians and artists including Luca Pacioli in his De divina proportione and Leonardo da Vinci. Piero studied classical mathematics and the works of Archimedes.[19] He was taught commercial arithmetic in "abacus schools"; his writings are formatted like abacus school textbooks,[20] perhaps including Leonardo Pisano (Fibonacci)'s 1202 Liber Abaci. Linear perspective was just being introduced into the artistic world. Alberti explained in his 1435 De pictura: "light rays travel in straight lines from points in the observed scene to the eye, forming a kind of pyramid with the eye as vertex." A painting constructed with linear perspective is a cross-section of that pyramid.[21]
In De Prospectiva Pingendi, Piero transforms his empirical observations of the way aspects of a figure change with point of view into mathematical proofs. His treatise starts in the vein of Euclid: he defines the point as "the tiniest thing that is possible for the eye to comprehend".[a][7] He uses deductive logic to lead the reader to the perspective representation of a three-dimensional body.[22]
The artist David Hockney argued in his book Secret Knowledge: Rediscovering the Lost Techniques of the Old Masters that artists started using a camera lucida from the 1420s, resulting in a sudden change in precision and realism, and that this practice was continued by major artists including Ingres, Van Eyck, and Caravaggio.[23] Critics disagree on whether Hockney was correct.[24][25] Similarly, the architect Philip Steadman argued controversially[26] that Vermeer had used a different device, the camera obscura, to help him create his distinctively observed paintings.[27]
In 1509, Luca Pacioli (c. 1447–1517) published De divina proportione on mathematical and artistic proportion, including in the human face. Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) illustrated the text with woodcuts of regular solids while he studied under Pacioli in the 1490s. Leonardo's drawings are probably the first illustrations of skeletonic solids.[28] These, such as the rhombicuboctahedron, were among the first to be drawn to demonstrate perspective by being overlaid on top of each other. The work discusses perspective in the works of Piero della Francesca, Melozzo da Forlì, and Marco Palmezzano.[29] Leonardo studied Pacioli's Summa, from which he copied tables of proportions.[30] In Mona Lisa and The Last Supper, Leonardo's work incorporated linear perspective with a vanishing point to provide apparent depth.[31] The Last Supper is constructed in a tight ratio of 12:6:4:3, as is Raphael's The School of Athens, which includes Pythagoras with a tablet of ideal ratios, sacred to the Pythagoreans.[32][33] In Vitruvian Man, Leonardo expressed the ideas of the Roman architect Vitruvius, innovatively showing the male figure twice, and centring him in both a circle and a square.[34]
As early as the 15th century, curvilinear perspective found its way into paintings by artists interested in image distortions. Jan van Eyck's 1434 Arnolfini Portrait contains a convex mirror with reflections of the people in the scene,[35] while Parmigianino's Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror, c. 1523–1524, shows the artist's largely undistorted face at the centre, with a strongly curved background and artist's hand around the edge.[36]
Three-dimensional space can be represented convincingly in art, as in technical drawing, by means other than perspective. Oblique projections, including cavalier perspective (used by French military artists to depict fortifications in the 18th century), were used continuously and ubiquitously by Chinese artists from the first or second centuries until the 18th century. The Chinese acquired the technique from India, which acquired it from Ancient Rome. Oblique projection is seen in Japanese art, such as in the Ukiyo-e paintings of Torii Kiyonaga (1752–1815).[37]
Woodcut from Luca Pacioli's 1509 De divina proportione  with an equilateral triangle on a human face
Camera lucida in use. Scientific American, 1879
Illustration of an artist using a camera obscura. 17th century
Proportion: Leonardo's Vitruvian Man, c. 1490
Brunelleschi's theory of perspective: Masaccio's Trinità, c. 1426–1428, in the Basilica of Santa Maria Novella
Diagram from Leon Battista Alberti's 1435 Della Pittura, with pillars in perspective on a grid
Linear perspective in Piero della Francesca's Flagellation of Christ, c. 1455–1460
Curvilinear perspective: convex mirror in Jan van Eyck's Arnolfini Portrait, 1434
Parmigianino, Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror, c. 1523–1524
Pythagoras with tablet of ratios, in Raphael's The School of Athens, 1509
Oblique projection: Entrance and yard of a yamen. Detail of scroll about Suzhou by Xu Yang, ordered by the Qianlong Emperor. 18th century
Oblique projection: women playing Shogi, Go and Ban-sugoroku board games. Painting by Torii Kiyonaga, Japan, c. 1780
The golden ratio (roughly equal to 1.618) was known to Euclid.[38] The golden ratio has persistently been claimed[39][40][41][42] in modern times to have been used in art and architecture by the ancients in Egypt, Greece and elsewhere, without reliable evidence.[43] The claim may derive from confusion with "golden mean", which to the Ancient Greeks meant "avoidance of excess in either direction", not a ratio.[43] Pyramidologists since the 19th century have argued on dubious mathematical grounds for the golden ratio in pyramid design.[b] The Parthenon, a 5th-century BC temple in Athens, has been claimed to use the golden ratio in its façade and floor plan,[46][47][48] but these claims too are disproved by measurement.[43] The Great Mosque of Kairouan in Tunisia has similarly been claimed to use the golden ratio in its design,[49] but the ratio does not appear in the original parts of the mosque.[50] The historian of architecture Frederik Macody Lund argued in 1919 that the Cathedral of Chartres (12th century), Notre-Dame of Laon (1157–1205) and Notre Dame de Paris (1160) are designed according to the golden ratio,[51] drawing regulator lines to make his case. Other scholars argue that until Pacioli's work in 1509, the golden ratio was unknown to artists and architects.[52] For example, the height and width of the front of Notre-Dame of Laon have the ratio 8/5 or 1.6, not 1.618. Such Fibonacci ratios quickly become hard to distinguish from the golden ratio.[53] After Pacioli, the golden ratio is more definitely discernible in artworks including Leonardo's Mona Lisa.[54]
Another ratio, the only other morphic number,[55] was named the plastic number[c] in 1928 by the Dutch architect Hans van der Laan (originally named le nombre radiant in French).[56] Its value is the solution of the cubic equation
an irrational number which is approximately 1.325. According to the architect Richard Padovan, this has characteristic ratios 3/4 and 1/7, which govern the limits of human perception in relating one physical size to another. Van der Laan used these ratios when designing the 1967 St. Benedictusberg Abbey church in the Netherlands.[56]
Base:hypotenuse(b:a) ratios for the Pyramid of Khufu could be: 1:φ (Kepler triangle), 3:5 (3-4-5 Triangle), or 1:4/π
Supposed ratios: Notre-Dame of Laon
Golden rectangles superimposed on the Mona Lisa
The 1967 St. Benedictusberg Abbey church by Hans van der Laan has plastic number proportions.
Planar symmetries have for millennia been exploited in artworks such as carpets, lattices, textiles and tilings.[58][59][60][61]
Many traditional rugs, whether pile carpets or flatweave kilims, are divided into a central field and a framing border; both can have symmetries, though in handwoven carpets these are often slightly broken by small details, variations of pattern and shifts in colour introduced by the weaver.[58] In kilims from Anatolia, the motifs used are themselves usually symmetrical. The general layout, too, is usually present, with arrangements such as stripes, stripes alternating with rows of motifs, and packed arrays of roughly hexagonal motifs. The field is commonly laid out as a wallpaper with a wallpaper group such as pmm, while the border may be laid out as a frieze of frieze group pm11, pmm2 or pma2. Turkish and Central Asian kilims often have three or more borders in different frieze groups. Weavers certainly had the intention of symmetry, without explicit knowledge of its mathematics.[58]
The mathematician and architectural theorist Nikos Salingaros suggests that the "powerful presence"[57] (aesthetic effect) of a "great carpet"[57] such as the best Konya two-medallion carpets of the 17th century is created by mathematical techniques related to the theories of the architect Christopher Alexander. These techniques include making opposites couple; opposing colour values; differentiating areas geometrically, whether by using complementary shapes or balancing the directionality of sharp angles; providing small-scale complexity (from the knot level upwards) and both small- and large-scale symmetry; repeating elements at a hierarchy of different scales (with a ratio of about 2.7 from each level to the next). Salingaros argues that "all successful carpets satisfy at least nine of the above ten rules", and suggests that it might be possible to create a metric from these rules.[57]
Elaborate lattices are found in Indian Jali work, carved in marble to adorn tombs and palaces.[59] Chinese lattices, always with some symmetry, exist in 14 of the 17 wallpaper groups; they often have mirror, double mirror, or rotational symmetry. Some have a central medallion, and some have a border in a frieze group.[62] Many Chinese lattices have been analysed mathematically by Daniel S. Dye; he identifies Sichuan as the centre of the craft.[63]
Symmetries are prominent in textile arts including quilting,[60] knitting,[64] cross-stitch, crochet,[65] embroidery[66][67] and weaving,[68] where they may be purely decorative or may be marks of status.[69] Rotational symmetry is found in circular structures such as domes; these are sometimes elaborately decorated with symmetric patterns inside and out, as at the 1619 Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque in Isfahan.[70] Items of embroidery and lace work such as tablecloths and table mats, made using bobbins or by tatting, can have a wide variety of reflectional and rotational symmetries which are being explored mathematically.[71]
Islamic art exploits symmetries in many of its artforms, notably in girih tilings. These are formed using a set of five tile shapes, namely a regular decagon, an elongated hexagon, a bow tie, a rhombus, and a regular pentagon. All the sides of these tiles have the same length; and all their angles are multiples of 36° (π/5 radians), offering fivefold and tenfold symmetries. The tiles are decorated with strapwork lines (girih), generally more visible than the tile boundaries. In 2007, the physicists Peter Lu and Paul Steinhardt  argued that girih resembled quasicrystalline Penrose tilings.[72] Elaborate geometric zellige tilework is a distinctive element in Moroccan architecture.[61] Muqarnas vaults are three-dimensional but were designed in two dimensions with drawings of geometrical cells.[73]
Hotamis kilim (detail), central Anatolia, early 19th century
Detail of a Ming Dynasty brocade, using a chamfered hexagonal lattice pattern
Jaali marble lattice at tomb of Salim Chishti, Fatehpur Sikri, India
Symmetries: Florentine Bargello pattern tapestry work
Ceiling of the Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque, Isfahan, 1619
Rotational symmetry in lace: tatting work
Girih tiles: patterns at large and small scales on a spandrel from the Darb-i Imam shrine, Isfahan, 1453
Tessellations: zellige mosaic tiles at Bou Inania Madrasa, Fes, Morocco
The complex geometry and tilings of the muqarnas vaulting in the Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque, Isfahan
Architect's plan of a muqarnas quarter vault. Topkapı Scroll
Tupa Inca tunic from Peru, 1450 –1540, an Andean textile denoting high rank[69]
The Platonic solids and other polyhedra are a recurring theme in Western art. They are found, for instance, in a marble mosaic featuring the small stellated dodecahedron, attributed to Paolo Uccello, in the floor of the San Marco Basilica in Venice;[12] in Leonardo da Vinci's diagrams of regular polyhedra drawn as illustrations for Luca Pacioli's 1509 book The Divine Proportion;[12] as a glass rhombicuboctahedron in Jacopo de Barbari's portrait of Pacioli, painted in 1495;[12] in the truncated polyhedron (and various other mathematical objects) in Albrecht Dürer's engraving Melencolia I;[12] and in Salvador Dalí's painting The Last Supper in which Christ and his disciples are pictured inside a giant dodecahedron.[77]
Albrecht Dürer (1471–1528) was a German Renaissance printmaker who made important contributions to polyhedral literature in his 1525 book, Underweysung der Messung (Education on Measurement), meant to teach the subjects of linear perspective, geometry in architecture, Platonic solids, and regular polygons. Dürer was likely influenced by the works of Luca Pacioli and Piero della Francesca during his trips to Italy.[78] While the examples of perspective in Underweysung der Messung are underdeveloped and contain inaccuracies, there is a detailed discussion of polyhedra. Dürer is also the first to introduce in text the idea of polyhedral nets, polyhedra unfolded to lie flat for printing.[79] Dürer published another influential book on human proportions called Vier Bücher von Menschlicher Proportion (Four Books on Human Proportion) in 1528.[80]
Dürer's well-known engraving Melencolia I depicts a frustrated thinker sitting by a truncated triangular trapezohedron and a magic square.[1] These two objects, and the engraving as a whole, have been the subject of more modern interpretation than the contents of almost any other print,[1][81][82] including a two-volume book by Peter-Klaus Schuster,[83] and an influential discussion in Erwin Panofsky's monograph of Dürer.[1][84]
Salvador Dalí's 1954 painting Corpus Hypercubus uniquely depicts the cross of Christ as an unfolded three-dimensional net for a hypercube, also known as a tesseract: the unfolding of a tesseract into these eight cubes is analogous to unfolding the sides of a cube into a cross shape of six squares, here representing the divine perspective with a four-dimensional regular polyhedron.[74][75] The painting shows the figure of Christ in front of the tessaract; he would normally be shown fixed with nails to the cross, but there are no nails in the painting. Instead, there are four small cubes in front of his body, at the corners of the frontmost of the eight tessaract cubes. The mathematician Thomas Banchoff states that Dalí was trying to go beyond the three-dimensional world, while the poet and art critic Kelly Grovier says that "The painting seems to have cracked the link between the spirituality of Christ's salvation and the materiality of geometric and physical forces. It appears to bridge the divide that many feel separates science from religion."[76]
The first printed illustration of a rhombicuboctahedron, by Leonardo da Vinci, published in De Divina Proportione, 1509
Icosahedron as a part of the monument to Baruch Spinoza, Amsterdam
Traditional Indonesian wax-resist batik designs on cloth combine representational motifs (such as floral and vegetal elements) with abstract and somewhat chaotic elements, including imprecision in applying the wax resist, and random variation introduced by cracking of the wax. Batik designs have a fractal dimension between 1 and 2, varying in different regional styles. For example, the batik of Cirebon has a fractal dimension of 1.1; the batiks of Yogyakarta and Surakarta (Solo) in Central Java have a fractal dimension of 1.2 to 1.5; and the batiks of Lasem on the north coast of Java and of Tasikmalaya in West Java have a fractal dimension between 1.5 and 1.7.[85]
The drip painting works of the modern artist Jackson Pollock are similarly distinctive in their fractal dimension. His 1948 Number 14 has a coastline-like dimension of 1.45, while his later paintings had successively higher fractal dimensions and accordingly more elaborate patterns. One of his last works, Blue Poles, took six months to create, and has the fractal dimension of 1.72.[86]
The astronomer Galileo Galilei in his Il Saggiatore wrote that "[The universe] is written in the language of mathematics, and its characters are triangles, circles, and other geometric figures."[87] Artists who strive and seek to study nature must first, in Galileo's view, fully understand mathematics. Mathematicians, conversely, have sought to interpret and analyse art through the lens of geometry and rationality. The mathematician Felipe Cucker suggests that mathematics, and especially geometry, is a source of rules for "rule-driven artistic creation", though not the only one.[88] Some of the many strands of the resulting complex relationship[89] are described below.
The mathematician Jerry P. King describes mathematics as an art, stating that "the keys to mathematics are beauty and elegance and not dullness and technicality", and that beauty is the motivating force for mathematical research.[90] King cites the mathematician G. H. Hardy's 1940 essay A Mathematician's Apology. In it, Hardy discusses why he finds two theorems of classical times as first rate, namely Euclid's proof there are infinitely many prime numbers, and the proof that the square root of 2 is irrational. King evaluates this last against Hardy's criteria for mathematical elegance: "seriousness, depth, generality, unexpectedness, inevitability, and economy" (King's italics), and describes the proof as "aesthetically pleasing".[91] The Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős agreed that mathematics possessed beauty but considered the reasons beyond explanation: "Why are numbers beautiful? It's like asking why is Beethoven's Ninth Symphony beautiful. If you don't see why, someone can't tell you. I know numbers are beautiful."[92]
Mathematics can be discerned in many of the arts, such as music, dance,[93] painting, architecture, and sculpture. Each of these is richly associated with mathematics.[94] Among the connections to the visual arts, mathematics can provide tools for artists, such as the rules of linear perspective as described by Brook Taylor and Johann Lambert, or the methods of descriptive geometry, now applied in software modelling of solids, dating back to Albrecht Dürer and Gaspard Monge.[95] Artists from Luca Pacioli in the Middle Ages and Leonardo da Vinci and Albrecht Dürer in the Renaissance have made use of and developed mathematical ideas in the pursuit of their artistic work.[94][96] The use of perspective began, despite some embryonic usages in the architecture of Ancient Greece, with Italian painters such as Giotto in the 13th century; rules such as the vanishing point were first formulated by Brunelleschi in about 1413,[6] his theory influencing Leonardo and Dürer. Isaac Newton's work on the optical spectrum influenced Goethe's Theory of Colours and in turn artists such as Philipp Otto Runge, J. M. W. Turner,[97] the Pre-Raphaelites and Wassily Kandinsky.[98][99] Artists may also choose to analyse the symmetry of a scene.[100] Tools may be applied by mathematicians who are exploring art, or artists inspired by mathematics, such as M. C. Escher (inspired by H. S. M. Coxeter) and the architect Frank Gehry, who more tenuously argued that computer aided design enabled him to express himself in a wholly new way.[101]
The artist Richard Wright argues that mathematical objects that can be constructed can be seen either "as processes to simulate phenomena" or as works of "computer art". He considers the nature of mathematical thought, observing that fractals were known to mathematicians for a century before they were recognised as such. Wright concludes by stating that it is appropriate to subject mathematical objects to any methods used to "come to terms with cultural artifacts like art, the tension between objectivity and subjectivity, their metaphorical meanings and the character of representational systems." He gives as instances an image from the Mandelbrot set, an image generated by a cellular automaton algorithm, and a computer-rendered image, and discusses, with reference to the Turing test, whether algorithmic products can be art.[102] Sasho Kalajdzievski's Math and Art: An Introduction to Visual Mathematics takes a similar approach, looking at suitably visual mathematics topics such as tilings, fractals and hyperbolic geometry.[103]
Some of the first works of computer art were created by Desmond Paul Henry's "Drawing Machine 1", an analogue machine based on a bombsight computer and exhibited in 1962.[104][105] The machine was capable of creating complex, abstract, asymmetrical, curvilinear, but repetitive line drawings.[104][106] More recently, Hamid Naderi Yeganeh has created shapes suggestive of real world objects such as fish and birds, using formulae that are successively varied to draw families of curves or angled lines.[107][108][109] Artists such as Mikael Hvidtfeldt Christensen create works of generative or algorithmic art by writing scripts for a software system such as Structure Synth: the artist effectively directs the system to apply a desired combination of mathematical operations to a chosen set of data.[110][111]
Mathematical sculpture by Bathsheba Grossman, 2007
Fractal sculpture: 3D Fraktal 03/H/dd by Hartmut Skerbisch, 2003
Fibonacci word: detail of artwork by Samuel Monnier, 2009
Computer art image produced by Desmond Paul Henry's "Drawing Machine 1", exhibited 1962
A Bird in Flight, by Hamid Naderi Yeganeh, 2016, constructed with a family of mathematical curves.
The mathematician and theoretical physicist Henri Poincaré's Science and Hypothesis was widely read by the Cubists, including Pablo Picasso and Jean Metzinger.[113][114] Being thoroughly familiar with Bernhard Riemann's work on non-Euclidean geometry, Poincaré was more than aware that Euclidean geometry is just one of many possible geometric configurations, rather than as an absolute objective truth. The possible existence of a fourth dimension inspired artists to question classical Renaissance perspective: non-Euclidean geometry became a valid alternative.[115][116][117] The concept that painting could be expressed mathematically, in colour and form, contributed to Cubism, the art movement that led to abstract art.[118] Metzinger, in 1910, wrote that: "[Picasso] lays out a free, mobile perspective, from which that ingenious mathematician Maurice Princet has deduced a whole geometry".[119] Later, Metzinger wrote in his memoirs:
Maurice Princet joined us often ... it was as an artist that he conceptualized mathematics, as an aesthetician that he invoked n-dimensional continuums. He loved to get the artists interested in the new views on space that had been opened up by Schlegel and some others. He succeeded at that.[120]The impulse to make teaching or research models of mathematical forms naturally creates objects that have symmetries and surprising or pleasing shapes. Some of these have inspired artists such as the Dadaists Man Ray,[121] Marcel Duchamp[122] and Max Ernst,[123][124] and following Man Ray, Hiroshi Sugimoto.[125]
Man Ray photographed some of the mathematical models in the Institut Henri Poincaré in Paris, including Objet mathematique (Mathematical object). He noted that this represented Enneper surfaces with constant negative curvature, derived from the pseudo-sphere. This mathematical foundation was important to him, as it allowed him to deny that the object was "abstract", instead claiming that it was as real as the urinal that Duchamp made into a work of art. Man Ray admitted that the object's [Enneper surface] formula "meant nothing to me, but the forms themselves were as varied and authentic as any in nature." He used his photographs of the mathematical models as figures in his series he did on Shakespeare's plays, such as his 1934 painting Antony and Cleopatra.[126] The art reporter Jonathan Keats, writing in ForbesLife, argues that Man Ray photographed "the elliptic paraboloids and conic points in the same sensual light as his pictures of Kiki de Montparnasse", and "ingeniously repurposes the cool calculations of mathematics to reveal the topology of desire".[127] Twentieth century sculptors such as Henry Moore, Barbara Hepworth and Naum Gabo took inspiration from mathematical models.[128] Moore wrote of his 1938 Stringed Mother and Child: "Undoubtedly the source of my stringed figures was the Science Museum ... I was fascinated by the mathematical models I saw there ... It wasn't the scientific study of these models but the ability to look through the strings as with a bird cage and to see one form within another which excited me."[129]
The artists Theo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian founded the De Stijl movement, which they wanted to "establish a visual vocabulary comprised of elementary geometrical forms comprehensible by all and adaptable to any discipline".[130][131] Many of their artworks visibly consist of ruled squares and triangles, sometimes also with circles. De Stijl artists worked in painting, furniture, interior design and architecture.[130] After the breakup of De Stijl, Van Doesburg founded the Avant-garde Art Concret movement, describing his 1929–1930 Arithmetic Composition, a series of four black squares on the diagonal of a squared background, as "a structure that can be controlled, a definite surface without chance elements or individual caprice", yet "not lacking in spirit, not lacking the universal and not ... empty as there is everything which fits the internal rhythm". The art critic Gladys Fabre observes that two progressions are at work in the painting, namely the growing black squares and the alternating backgrounds.[132]
The mathematics of tessellation, polyhedra, shaping of space, and self-reference provided the graphic artist M. C. Escher (1898—1972) with a lifetime's worth of materials for his woodcuts.[133][134] In the Alhambra Sketch, Escher showed that art can be created with polygons or regular shapes such as triangles, squares, and hexagons. Escher used irregular polygons when tiling the plane and often used reflections, glide reflections, and translations to obtain further patterns. Many of his works contain impossible constructions, made using geometrical objects which set up a contradiction between perspective projection and three dimensions, but are pleasant to the human sight. Escher's Ascending and Descending is based on the "impossible staircase" created by the medical scientist Lionel Penrose and his son the mathematician Roger Penrose.[135][136][137]
Some of Escher's many tessellation drawings were inspired by conversations with the mathematician H. S. M. Coxeter on hyperbolic geometry.[138] Escher was especially interested in five specific polyhedra, which appear many times in his work. The Platonic solids—tetrahedrons, cubes, octahedrons, dodecahedrons, and icosahedrons—are especially prominent in Order and Chaos and Four Regular Solids.[139] These stellated figures often reside within another figure which further distorts the viewing angle and conformation of the polyhedrons and provides a multifaceted perspective artwork.[140]
The visual intricacy of mathematical structures such as tessellations and polyhedra have inspired a variety of mathematical artworks. Stewart Coffin makes polyhedral puzzles in rare and beautiful woods; George W. Hart works on the theory of polyhedra and sculpts objects inspired by them; Magnus Wenninger makes "especially beautiful" models of complex stellated polyhedra.[141]
The distorted perspectives of anamorphosis have been explored in art since the sixteenth century, when Hans Holbein the Younger incorporated a severely distorted skull in his 1533 painting The Ambassadors. Many artists since then, including Escher, have make use of anamorphic tricks.[142]
The mathematics of topology has inspired several artists in modern times. The sculptor John Robinson (1935–2007) created works such as Gordian Knot and Bands of Friendship, displaying knot theory in polished bronze.[7] Other works by Robinson explore the topology of toruses. Genesis is based on Borromean rings – a set of three circles, no two of which link but in which the whole structure cannot be taken apart without breaking.[143] The sculptor Helaman Ferguson creates complex surfaces and other topological objects.[144] His works are visual representations of mathematical objects; The Eightfold Way is based on the projective special linear group PSL(2,7), a finite group of 168 elements.[145][146] The sculptor Bathsheba Grossman similarly bases her work on mathematical structures.[147][148] The artist Nelson Saiers incorporates mathematical concepts and theorems in his art from toposes and schemes to the four color theorem and the irrationality of π.[149]
A liberal arts inquiry project examines connections between mathematics and art through the Möbius strip, flexagons, origami and panorama photography.[150]
Mathematical objects including the Lorenz manifold and the hyperbolic plane have been crafted using fiber arts including crochet.[d][152] The American weaver Ada Dietz wrote a 1949 monograph Algebraic Expressions in Handwoven Textiles, defining weaving patterns based on the expansion of multivariate polynomials.[153] The mathematician Daina Taimiņa demonstrated features of the hyperbolic plane by crocheting in 2001.[154] This led Margaret and Christine Wertheim to crochet a coral reef, consisting of many marine animals such as nudibranchs whose shapes are based on hyperbolic planes.[155] 
The mathematician J. C. P. Miller used the Rule 90 cellular automaton to design tapestries depicting both trees and abstract patterns of triangles.[156] The "mathekniticians"[157] Pat Ashforth and Steve Plummer use knitted versions of mathematical objects such as hexaflexagons in their teaching, though their Menger sponge proved too troublesome to knit and was made of plastic canvas instead.[158][159] Their "mathghans" (Afghans for Schools) project introduced knitting into the British mathematics and technology curriculum.[160][161]
Four-dimensional space to Cubism: Esprit Jouffret's 1903 Traité élémentaire de géométrie à quatre dimensions.[162][e]
De Stijl: Theo van Doesburg's geometric Composition I (Still Life), 1916
Pedagogy to art: Magnus Wenninger with some of his stellated polyhedra, 2009
A Möbius strip scarf in crochet, 2007
Anamorphism: The Ambassadors by Hans Holbein the Younger, 1533, with severely distorted skull in foreground
Crocheted coral reef: many animals modelled as hyperbolic planes with varying parameters by Margaret and Christine Wertheim. Föhr Reef, Tübingen, 2013
Modelling is far from the only possible way to illustrate mathematical concepts. Giotto's Stefaneschi Triptych, 1320, illustrates recursion in the form of mise en abyme; the central panel of the triptych contains, lower left, the kneeling figure of Cardinal Stefaneschi, holding up the triptych as an offering.[164] Giorgio de Chirico's metaphysical paintings such as his 1917 Great Metaphysical Interior explore the question of levels of representation in art by depicting paintings within his paintings.[165]
Art can exemplify logical paradoxes, as in some paintings by the surrealist René Magritte, which can be read as semiotic jokes about confusion between levels. In La condition humaine (1933), Magritte depicts an easel (on the real canvas), seamlessly supporting a view through a window which is framed by "real" curtains in the painting. Similarly, Escher's Print Gallery (1956) is a print which depicts a distorted city which contains a gallery which recursively contains the picture, and so ad infinitum.[166] Magritte made use of spheres and cuboids to distort reality in a different way, painting them alongside an assortment of houses in his 1931 Mental Arithmetic as if they were children's building blocks, but house-sized.[167] The Guardian observed that the "eerie toytown image" prophesied Modernism's usurpation of "cosy traditional forms", but also plays with the human tendency to seek patterns in nature.[168]
Salvador Dalí's last painting, The Swallow's Tail (1983), was part of a series inspired by René Thom's catastrophe theory.[170] The Spanish painter and sculptor Pablo Palazuelo (1916–2007) focused on the investigation of form. He developed a style that he described as the geometry of life and the geometry of all nature. Consisting of simple geometric shapes with detailed patterning and coloring, in works such as Angular I and Automnes, Palazuelo expressed himself in geometric transformations.[7]
The artist Adrian Gray practises stone balancing, exploiting friction and the centre of gravity to create striking and seemingly impossible compositions.[171]
Artists, however, do not necessarily take geometry literally. As Douglas Hofstadter writes in his 1980 reflection on human thought, Gödel, Escher, Bach, by way of (among other things) the mathematics of art: "The difference between an Escher drawing and non-Euclidean geometry is that in the latter, comprehensible interpretations can be found for the undefined terms, resulting in a comprehensible total system, whereas for the former, the end result is not reconcilable with one's conception of the world, no matter how long one stares at the pictures." Hofstadter discusses the seemingly paradoxical lithograph Print Gallery by M. C. Escher; it depicts a seaside town containing an art gallery which seems to contain a painting of the seaside town, there being a "strange loop, or tangled hierarchy" to the levels of reality in the image. The artist himself, Hofstadter observes, is not seen; his reality and his relation to the lithograph are not paradoxical.[169] The image's central void has also attracted the interest of mathematicians Bart de Smit and Hendrik Lenstra, who propose that it could contain a Droste effect copy of itself, rotated and shrunk; this would be a further illustration of recursion beyond that noted by Hofstadter.[172][173]
Algorithmic analysis of images of artworks, for example using X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, can reveal information about art. Such techniques can uncover images in layers of paint later covered over by an artist; help art historians to visualize an artwork before it cracked or faded; help to tell a copy from an original, or distinguish the brushstroke style of a master from those of his apprentices.[174][175]
Jackson Pollock's drip painting style[176] has a definite fractal dimension;[177] among the artists who may have influenced Pollock's controlled chaos,[178] Max Ernst painted Lissajous figures directly by swinging a punctured bucket of paint over a canvas.[179]
The computer scientist Neil Dodgson investigated whether Bridget Riley's stripe paintings could be characterised mathematically, concluding that while separation distance could "provide some characterisation" and global entropy worked on some paintings, autocorrelation failed as Riley's patterns were irregular. Local entropy worked best, and correlated well with the description given by the art critic Robert Kudielka.[180]
The American mathematician George Birkhoff's 1933 Aesthetic Measure proposes a quantitative metric of the aesthetic quality of an artwork. It does not attempt to measure the connotations of a work, such as what a painting might mean, but is limited to the "elements of order" of a polygonal figure. Birkhoff first combines (as a sum) five such elements: whether there is a vertical axis of symmetry; whether there is optical equilibrium; how many rotational symmetries it has; how wallpaper-like the figure is; and whether there are unsatisfactory features such as having two vertices too close together. This metric, O, takes a value between −3 and 7. The second metric, C, counts elements of the figure, which for a polygon is the number of different straight lines containing at least one of its sides. Birkhoff then defines his aesthetic measure of an object's beauty as O/C. This can be interpreted as a balance between the pleasure looking at the object gives, and the amount of effort needed to take it in. Birkhoff's proposal has been criticized in various ways, not least for trying to put beauty in a formula, but he never claimed to have done that.[181]
Art has sometimes stimulated the development of mathematics, as when Brunelleschi's theory of perspective in architecture and painting started a cycle of research that led to the work of Brook Taylor and Johann Heinrich Lambert on the mathematical foundations of perspective drawing,[182] and ultimately to the mathematics of projective geometry of Girard Desargues and Jean-Victor Poncelet.[183]
The Japanese paper-folding art of origami has been reworked mathematically by Tomoko Fusé using modules, congruent pieces of paper such as squares, and making them into polyhedra or tilings.[184] Paper-folding was used in 1893 by T. Sundara Rao in his Geometric Exercises in Paper Folding to demonstrate geometrical proofs.[185] The mathematics of paper folding has been explored in Maekawa's theorem,[186] Kawasaki's theorem,[187] and the Huzita–Hatori axioms.[188]
Stimulus to projective geometry: Alberti's diagram showing a circle seen in perspective as an ellipse. Della Pittura, 1435–1436
Mathematical origami: Spring Into Action, by Jeff Beynon, made from a single paper rectangle.[189]
Optical illusions such as the Fraser spiral strikingly demonstrate limitations in human visual perception, creating what the art historian Ernst Gombrich called a "baffling trick." The black and white ropes that appear to form spirals are in fact concentric circles. The mid-twentieth century Op art or optical art style of painting and graphics exploited such effects to create the impression of movement and flashing or vibrating patterns seen in the work of artists such as Bridget Riley, Spyros Horemis,[190] and Victor Vasarely.[191]
A strand of art from Ancient Greece onwards sees God as the geometer of the world, and the world's geometry therefore as sacred. The belief that God created the universe according to a geometric plan has ancient origins. Plutarch attributed the belief to Plato, writing that "Plato said God geometrizes continually" (Convivialium disputationum, liber 8,2). This image has influenced Western thought ever since. The Platonic concept derived in its turn from a Pythagorean notion of harmony in music, where the notes were spaced in perfect proportions, corresponding to the lengths of the lyre's strings; indeed, the Pythagoreans held that everything was arranged by Number. In the same way, in Platonic thought, the regular or Platonic solids dictate the proportions found in nature, and in art.[192][193] An illumination in the 13th-century Codex Vindobonensis shows God drawing out the universe with a pair of compasses, which may refer to a verse in the Old Testament: "When he established the heavens I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the deep" (Proverbs 8:27), .[194] In 1596, the mathematical astronomer Johannes Kepler modelled the universe as a set of nested Platonic solids, determining the relative sizes of the orbits of the planets.[194] William Blake's Ancient of Days (depicting Urizen, Blake's embodiment of reason and law) and his painting of the physicist Isaac Newton, naked, hunched and drawing with a compass, use the symbolism of compasses to critique conventional reason and materialism as narrow-minded.[195][196]
Salvador Dalí's 1954 Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus) depicts the cross as a hypercube, representing the divine perspective with four dimensions rather than the usual three.[75] In Dalí's The Sacrament of the Last Supper (1955) Christ and his disciples are pictured inside a giant dodecahedron.[197]
God the geometer. Codex Vindobonensis, c. 1220
The creation, with the Pantocrator bearing. Bible of St Louis, c. 1220–1240
Johannes Kepler's Platonic solid model of planetary spacing in the Solar System from Mysterium Cosmographicum, 1596
William Blake's The Ancient of Days, 1794
William Blake's Newton, c. 1800
Mathematics during the Golden Age of Islam, especially during the 9th and 10th centuries, was built on Greek mathematics (Euclid, Archimedes, Apollonius) and Indian mathematics (Aryabhata, Brahmagupta). Important progress was made, such as full development of the decimal place-value system to include decimal fractions, the first systematised study of algebra, and advances in geometry and trigonometry.[1]
Arabic works played an important role in the transmission of mathematics to Europe during the 10th to 12th centuries.[2]
The study of algebra, the name of which is derived from the Arabic word meaning completion or "reunion of broken parts",[3] flourished during the Islamic golden age. Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi, a Persian scholar in the House of Wisdom in Baghdad was the founder of algebra, is along with the Greek mathematician Diophantus, known as the father of algebra. In his book The Compendious Book on Calculation by Completion and Balancing, Al-Khwarizmi deals with ways to solve for the positive roots of first and second degree (linear and quadratic) polynomial equations. He introduces the method of reduction, and unlike Diophantus, also gives general solutions for the equations he deals with.[4][5][6]
Al-Khwarizmi's algebra was rhetorical, which means that the equations were written out in full sentences. This was unlike the algebraic work of Diophantus, which was syncopated, meaning that some symbolism is used. The transition to symbolic algebra, where only symbols are used, can be seen in the work of Ibn al-Banna' al-Marrakushi and Abū al-Ḥasan ibn ʿAlī al-Qalaṣādī.[7][6]
On the work done by Al-Khwarizmi, J. J. O'Connor and Edmund F. Robertson said:[8]
"Perhaps one of the most significant advances made by Arabic mathematics began at this time with the work of al-Khwarizmi, namely the beginnings of algebra. It is important to understand just how significant this new idea was. It was a revolutionary move away from the Greek concept of mathematics which was essentially geometry. Algebra was a unifying theory which allowed rational numbers, irrational numbers, geometrical magnitudes, etc., to all be treated as "algebraic objects". It gave mathematics a whole new development path so much broader in concept to that which had existed before, and provided a vehicle for the future development of the subject. Another important aspect of the introduction of algebraic ideas was that it allowed mathematics to be applied to itself in a way which had not happened before." Several other mathematicians during this time period expanded on the algebra of Al-Khwarizmi. Abu Kamil Shuja' wrote a book of algebra accompanied with geometrical illustrations and proofs. He also enumerated all the possible solutions to some of his problems. Abu al-Jud, Omar Khayyam, along with Sharaf al-Dīn al-Tūsī, found several solutions of the cubic equation. Omar Khayyam found the general geometric solution of a cubic equation.
Omar Khayyam (c. 1038/48 in Iran – 1123/24)[9] wrote the Treatise on Demonstration of Problems of Algebra containing the systematic solution of cubic or third-order equations, going beyond the Algebra of al-Khwārizmī.[10] Khayyám obtained the solutions of these equations by finding the intersection points of two conic sections. This method had been used by the Greeks,[11] but they did not generalize the method to cover all equations with positive roots.[10]
Sharaf al-Dīn al-Ṭūsī (? in Tus, Iran – 1213/4) developed a novel approach to the investigation of cubic equations—an approach which entailed finding the point at which a cubic polynomial obtains its maximum value. For example, to solve the equation 



 

x

3


+
a
=
b
x


{\displaystyle \ x^{3}+a=bx}

, with a and b positive, he would note that the maximum point of the curve 



 
y
=
b
x
−

x

3




{\displaystyle \ y=bx-x^{3}}

 occurs at 



x
=




b
3






{\displaystyle x=\textstyle {\sqrt {\frac {b}{3}}}}

, and that the equation would have no solutions, one solution or two solutions, depending on whether the height of the curve at that point was less than, equal to, or greater than a. His surviving works give no indication of how he discovered his formulae for the maxima of these curves. Various conjectures have been proposed to account for his discovery of them.[12]
The earliest implicit traces of mathematical induction can be found in Euclid's proof that the number of primes is infinite (c. 300 BCE). The first explicit formulation of the principle of induction was given by Pascal in his Traité du triangle arithmétique (1665).
In between, implicit proof by induction for arithmetic sequences was introduced by al-Karaji (c. 1000) and continued by al-Samaw'al, who used it for special cases of the binomial theorem and properties of Pascal's triangle.
The Greeks had discovered irrational numbers, but were not happy with them and only able to cope by drawing a distinction between magnitude and number. In the Greek view, magnitudes varied continuously and could be used for entities such as line segments, whereas numbers were discrete. Hence, irrationals could only be handled geometrically; and indeed Greek mathematics was mainly geometrical. Islamic mathematicians including Abū Kāmil Shujāʿ ibn Aslam and Ibn Tahir al-Baghdadi slowly removed the distinction between magnitude and number, allowing irrational quantities to appear as coefficients in equations and to be solutions of algebraic equations.[13][14] They worked freely with irrationals as mathematical objects, but they did not examine closely their nature.[15]
In the twelfth century, Latin translations of Al-Khwarizmi's Arithmetic on the Indian numerals introduced the decimal positional number system to the Western world.[16] His Compendious Book on Calculation by Completion and Balancing presented the first systematic solution of linear and quadratic equations. In Renaissance Europe, he was considered the original inventor of algebra, although it is now known that his work is based on older Indian or Greek sources.[17][18] He revised Ptolemy's Geography and wrote on astronomy and astrology. However, C.A. Nallino suggests that al-Khwarizmi's original work was not based on Ptolemy but on a derivative world map,[19] presumably in Syriac or Arabic.
The spherical law of sines was discovered in the 10th century: it has been attributed variously to Abu-Mahmud Khojandi, Nasir al-Din al-Tusi and Abu Nasr Mansur, with Abu al-Wafa' Buzjani as a contributor.[13] Ibn Muʿādh al-Jayyānī's The book of unknown arcs of a sphere in the 11th century introduced the general law of sines.[20] The plane law of sines was described in the 13th century by Nasīr al-Dīn al-Tūsī. In his On the Sector Figure, he stated the law of sines for plane and spherical triangles and provided proofs for this law.[21]
In the 9th century, Islamic mathematicians were familiar with negative numbers from the works of Indian mathematicians, but the recognition and use of negative numbers during this period remained timid.[22] Al-Khwarizmi did not use negative numbers or negative coefficients.[22] But within fifty years, Abu Kamil illustrated the rules of signs for expanding the multiplication 



(
a
±
b
)
(
c
±
d
)


{\displaystyle (a\pm b)(c\pm d)}

.[23] Al-Karaji wrote in his book al-Fakhrī that "negative quantities must be counted as terms".[22] In the 10th century, Abū al-Wafā' al-Būzjānī considered debts as negative numbers in A Book on What Is Necessary from the Science of Arithmetic for Scribes and Businessmen.[23]
By the 12th century, al-Karaji's successors were to state the general rules of signs and use them to solve polynomial divisions.[22] As al-Samaw'al writes:
the product of a negative number — al-nāqiṣ — by a positive number — al-zāʾid — is negative, and by a negative number is positive. If we subtract a negative number from a higher negative number, the remainder is their negative difference. The difference remains positive if we subtract a negative number from a lower negative number. If we subtract a negative number from a positive number, the remainder is their positive sum. If we subtract a positive number from an empty power (martaba khāliyya), the remainder is the same negative, and if we subtract a negative number from an empty power, the remainder is the same positive number.[22]Between the 9th and 10th centuries, the Egyptian mathematician Abu Kamil wrote a now-lost treatise on the use of double false position, known as the Book of the Two Errors (Kitāb al-khaṭāʾayn). The oldest surviving writing on double false position from the Middle East is that of Qusta ibn Luqa (10th century), an Arab mathematician from Baalbek, Lebanon. He justified the technique by a formal, Euclidean-style geometric proof. Within the tradition of Golden Age Muslim mathematics, double false position was known as hisāb al-khaṭāʾayn ("reckoning by two errors"). It was used for centuries to solve practical problems such as commercial and juridical questions (estate partitions according to rules of Quranic inheritance), as well as purely recreational problems. The algorithm was often memorized with the aid of mnemonics, such as a verse attributed to Ibn al-Yasamin and balance-scale diagrams explained by al-Hassar and Ibn al-Banna, who were each mathematicians of Moroccan origin.[24]

Sally P. Ragep, a historian of science in Islam, estimated in 2019 that "tens of thousands" of Arabic manuscripts in mathematical sciences and philosophy remain unread, which give studies which "reflect individual biases and a limited focus on a relatively few texts and scholars".[25][full citation needed]
Engraving of Abū Sahl al-Qūhī's perfect compass to draw conic sections.
The theorem of Ibn Haytham.


Mathematics and architecture are related, since, as with other arts, architects use mathematics for several reasons. Apart from the mathematics needed when engineering buildings, architects use geometry: to define the spatial form of a building; from the Pythagoreans of the sixth century BC onwards, to create forms considered harmonious, and thus to lay out buildings and their surroundings according to mathematical, aesthetic and sometimes religious principles; to decorate buildings with mathematical objects such as tessellations; and to meet environmental goals, such as to minimise wind speeds around the bases of tall buildings.
In ancient Egypt, ancient Greece, India, and the Islamic world, buildings including pyramids, temples, mosques, palaces and mausoleums were laid out with specific proportions for religious reasons. In Islamic architecture, geometric shapes and geometric tiling patterns are used to decorate buildings, both inside and outside. Some Hindu temples have a fractal-like structure where parts resemble the whole, conveying a message about the infinite in Hindu cosmology. In Chinese architecture, the tulou of Fujian province are circular, communal defensive structures. In the twenty-first century, mathematical ornamentation is again being used to cover public buildings.
In Renaissance architecture, symmetry and proportion were deliberately emphasized by architects such as Leon Battista Alberti, Sebastiano Serlio and Andrea Palladio, influenced by Vitruvius's De architectura from ancient Rome and the arithmetic of the Pythagoreans from ancient Greece.
At the end of the nineteenth century, Vladimir Shukhov in Russia and Antoni Gaudí in Barcelona pioneered the use of hyperboloid structures; in the Sagrada Família, Gaudí also incorporated hyperbolic paraboloids, tessellations, catenary arches, catenoids, helicoids, and ruled surfaces. In the twentieth century, styles such as modern architecture and Deconstructivism explored different geometries to achieve desired effects. Minimal surfaces have been exploited in tent-like roof coverings as at Denver International Airport, while Richard Buckminster Fuller pioneered the use of the strong thin-shell structures known as geodesic domes.
The architects Michael Ostwald and Kim Williams, considering the relationships between architecture and mathematics, note that the fields as commonly understood might seem to be only weakly connected, since architecture is a profession concerned with the practical matter of making buildings, while mathematics is the pure study of number and other abstract objects. But, they argue, the two are strongly connected, and have been since antiquity. In ancient Rome, Vitruvius described an architect as a man who knew enough of a range of other disciplines, primarily geometry, to enable him to oversee skilled artisans in all the other necessary areas, such as masons and carpenters. The same applied in the Middle Ages, where graduates learnt arithmetic, geometry and aesthetics alongside the basic syllabus of grammar, logic, and rhetoric (the trivium) in elegant halls made by master builders who had guided many craftsmen. A master builder at the top of his profession was given the title of architect or engineer. In the Renaissance, the quadrivium of arithmetic, geometry, music and astronomy became an extra syllabus expected of the Renaissance man such as Leon Battista Alberti. Similarly in England, Sir Christopher Wren, known today as an architect, was firstly a noted astronomer.[3]
Williams and Ostwald, further overviewing the interaction of mathematics and architecture since 1500 according to the approach of the German sociologist Theodor Adorno, identify three tendencies among architects, namely: to be revolutionary, introducing wholly new ideas; reactionary, failing to introduce change; or revivalist, actually going backwards. They argue that architects have avoided looking to mathematics for inspiration in revivalist times. This would explain why in revivalist periods, such as the Gothic Revival in 19th century England, architecture had little connection to mathematics. Equally, they note that in reactionary times such as the Italian Mannerism of about 1520 to 1580, or the 17th century Baroque and Palladian movements, mathematics was barely consulted. In contrast, the revolutionary early 20th century movements such as Futurism and Constructivism actively rejected old ideas, embracing mathematics and leading to Modernist architecture. Towards the end of the 20th century, too, fractal geometry was quickly seized upon by architects, as was aperiodic tiling, to provide interesting and attractive coverings for buildings.[4]
Architects use mathematics for several reasons, leaving aside the necessary use of mathematics in the engineering of buildings.[5] Firstly, they use geometry because it defines the spatial form of a building.[6] Secondly, they use mathematics to design forms that are considered beautiful or harmonious.[7] From the time of the Pythagoreans with their religious philosophy of number,[8] architects in ancient Greece, ancient Rome, the Islamic world and the Italian Renaissance have chosen the proportions of the built environment – buildings and their designed surroundings – according to mathematical as well as aesthetic and sometimes religious principles.[9][10][11][12] Thirdly, they may use mathematical objects such as tessellations to decorate buildings.[13][14] Fourthly, they may use mathematics in the form of computer modelling to meet environmental goals, such as to minimise whirling air currents at the base of tall buildings.[1]
The influential ancient Roman architect Vitruvius argued that the design of a building such as a temple depends on two qualities, proportion and symmetria. Proportion ensures that each part of a building relates harmoniously to every other part. Symmetria in Vitruvius's usage means something closer to the English term modularity than mirror symmetry, as again it relates to the assembling of (modular) parts into the whole building. In his Basilica at Fano, he uses ratios of small integers, especially the triangular numbers (1, 3, 6, 10, ...) to proportion the structure into (Vitruvian) modules.[a] Thus the Basilica's width to length is 1:2; the aisle around it is as high as it is wide, 1:1; the columns are five feet thick and fifty feet high, 1:10.[9]
Vitruvius named three qualities required of architecture in his De architectura, c. 15 B.C.: firmness, usefulness (or "Commodity" in Henry Wotton's 16th century English), and delight. These can be used as categories for classifying the ways in which mathematics is used in architecture. Firmness encompasses the use of mathematics to ensure a building stands up, hence the mathematical tools used in design and to support construction, for instance to ensure stability and to model performance. Usefulness derives in part from the effective application of mathematics, reasoning about and analysing the spatial and other relationships in a design. Delight is an attribute of the resulting building, resulting from the embodying of mathematical relationships in the building; it includes aesthetic, sensual and intellectual qualities.[16]
The Pantheon in Rome has survived intact, illustrating classical Roman structure, proportion, and decoration. The main structure is a dome, the apex left open as a circular oculus to let in light; it is fronted by a short colonnade with a triangular pediment. The height to the oculus and the diameter of the interior circle are the same, 43.3 metres (142 ft), so the whole interior would fit exactly within a cube, and the interior could house a sphere of the same diameter.[17] These dimensions make more sense when expressed in ancient Roman units of measurement: The dome spans 150 Roman feet[b]); the oculus is 30 Roman feet in diameter; the doorway is 40 Roman feet high.[18] The Pantheon remains the world's largest unreinforced concrete dome.[19]
The first Renaissance treatise on architecture was Leon Battista Alberti's 1450 De re aedificatoria (On the Art of Building); it became the first printed book on architecture in 1485. It was partly based on Vitruvius's De architectura and, via Nicomachus, Pythagorean arithmetic. Alberti starts with a cube, and derives ratios from it. Thus the diagonal of a face gives the ratio 1:√2, while the diameter of the sphere which circumscribes the cube gives 1:√3.[20][21] Alberti also documented Filippo Brunelleschi's discovery of linear perspective, developed to enable the design of buildings which would look beautifully proportioned when viewed from a convenient distance.[12]
The next major text was Sebastiano Serlio's Regole generali d'architettura (General Rules of Architecture); the first volume appeared in Venice in 1537; the 1545 volume (books 1 and 2) covered geometry and perspective. Two of Serlio's methods for constructing perspectives were wrong, but this did not stop his work being widely used.[23]
In 1570, Andrea Palladio published the influential I quattro libri dell'architettura (The Four Books of Architecture) in Venice. This widely printed book was largely responsible for spreading the ideas of the Italian Renaissance throughout Europe, assisted by proponents like the English diplomat Henry Wotton with his 1624 The Elements of Architecture.[24] The proportions of each room within the villa were calculated on simple mathematical ratios like 3:4 and 4:5, and the different rooms within the house were interrelated by these ratios. Earlier architects had used these formulas for balancing a single symmetrical facade; however, Palladio's designs related to the whole, usually square, villa.[25] Palladio permitted a range of ratios in the Quattro libri, stating:[26][27]
There are seven types of room that are the most beautiful and well proportioned and turn out better: they can be made circular, though these are rare; or square; or their length will equal the diagonal of the square of the breadth; or a square and a third; or a square and a half; or a square and two-thirds; or two squares.[c]In 1615, Vincenzo Scamozzi published the late Renaissance treatise L'idea dell'architettura universale (The Idea of a Universal Architecture).[28] He attempted to relate the design of cities and buildings to the ideas of Vitruvius and the Pythagoreans, and to the more recent ideas of Palladio.[29]
Hyperboloid structures were used starting towards the end of the nineteenth century by Vladimir Shukhov for masts, lighthouses and cooling towers. Their striking shape is both aesthetically interesting and strong, using structural materials economically. Shukhov's first hyperboloidal tower was exhibited in Nizhny Novgorod in 1896.[30][31][32]
The early twentieth century movement Modern architecture, pioneered[d] by Russian Constructivism,[33] used rectilinear Euclidean (also called Cartesian) geometry. In the De Stijl movement, the horizontal and the vertical were seen as constituting the universal. The architectural form consists of putting these two directional tendencies together, using roof planes, wall planes and balconies, which either slide past or intersect each other, as in the 1924 Rietveld Schröder House by Gerrit Rietveld.[34]
Modernist architects were free to make use of curves as well as planes. Charles Holden's 1933 Arnos station has a circular ticket hall in brick with a flat concrete roof.[35] In 1938, the Bauhaus painter László Moholy-Nagy adopted Raoul Heinrich Francé's seven biotechnical elements, namely the crystal, the sphere, the cone, the plane, the (cuboidal) strip, the (cylindrical) rod, and the spiral, as the supposed basic building blocks of architecture inspired by nature.[36][37]
Le Corbusier proposed an anthropometric scale of proportions in architecture, the Modulor, based on the supposed height of a man.[38] Le Corbusier's 1955 Chapelle Notre-Dame du Haut uses free-form curves not describable in mathematical formulae.[e] The shapes are said to be evocative of natural forms such as the prow of a ship or praying hands.[41] The design is only at the largest scale: there is no hierarchy of detail at smaller scales, and thus no fractal dimension; the same applies to other famous twentieth-century buildings such as the Sydney Opera House, Denver International Airport, and the Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao.[39]
Contemporary architecture, in the opinion of the 90 leading architects who responded to a 2010 World Architecture Survey, is extremely diverse; the best was judged to be Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao.[42]
Denver International Airport's terminal building, completed in 1995, has a fabric roof supported as a minimal surface (i.e., its mean curvature is zero) by steel cables. It evokes Colorado's snow-capped mountains and the teepee tents of Native Americans.[43][44]
The architect Richard Buckminster Fuller is famous for designing strong thin-shell structures known as geodesic domes. The Montréal Biosphère dome is 61 metres (200 ft) high; its diameter is 76 metres (249 ft).[45]
Sydney Opera House has a dramatic roof consisting of soaring white vaults, reminiscent of ship's sails; to make them possible to construct using standardized components, the vaults are all composed of triangular sections of spherical shells with the same radius. These have the required uniform curvature in every direction.[46]
The late twentieth century movement Deconstructivism creates deliberate disorder with what Nikos Salingaros in A Theory of Architecture calls random forms[47] of high complexity[48] by using non-parallel walls, superimposed grids and complex 2-D surfaces, as in Frank Gehry's Disney Concert Hall and Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao.[49][50] Until the twentieth century, architecture students were obliged to have a grounding in mathematics. Salingaros argues that first "overly simplistic, politically-driven" Modernism and then "anti-scientific" Deconstructivism have effectively separated architecture from mathematics. He believes that this "reversal of mathematical values" is harmful, as the "pervasive aesthetic" of non-mathematical architecture trains people "to reject mathematical information in the built environment"; he argues that this has negative effects on society.[39]
New Objectivity: Walter Gropius's Bauhaus, Dessau, 1925
Cylinder: Charles Holden's Arnos Grove tube station, 1933
Modernism: Le Corbusier's Chapelle Notre Dame du Haut, 1955
Geodesic dome: the Montréal Biosphère by R. Buckminster Fuller, 1967
Uniform curvature: Sydney Opera House, 1973
Deconstructivism: Disney Concert Hall, Los Angeles, 2003
The pyramids of ancient Egypt are tombs constructed with mathematical proportions, but which these were, and whether the Pythagorean theorem was used, are debated. The ratio of the slant height to half the base length of the Great Pyramid of Giza is less than 1% from the golden ratio.[51] If this was the design method, it would imply the use of Kepler's triangle (face angle 51°49'),[51][52] but according to many historians of science, the golden ratio was not known until the time of the Pythagoreans.[53] The Great Pyramid may also have been based on a triangle with base to hypotenuse ratio 1:4/π (face angle 51°50').[54]
The proportions of some pyramids may have also been based on the 3:4:5 triangle (face angle 53°8'), known from the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus (c. 1650–1550 BC); this was first conjectured by historian Moritz Cantor in 1882.[55] It is known that right angles were laid out accurately in ancient Egypt using knotted cords for measurement,[55] that Plutarch recorded in Isis and Osiris (c. 100 AD) that the Egyptians admired the 3:4:5 triangle,[55] and that a scroll from before 1700 BC demonstrated basic square formulas.[56][f] Historian Roger L. Cooke observes that "It is hard to imagine anyone being interested in such conditions without knowing the Pythagorean theorem," but also notes that no Egyptian text before 300 BC actually mentions the use of the theorem to find the length of a triangle's sides, and that there are simpler ways to construct a right angle. Cooke concludes that Cantor's conjecture remains uncertain; he guesses that the ancient Egyptians probably knew the Pythagorean theorem, but "there is no evidence that they used it to construct right angles."[55]
Vaastu Shastra, the ancient Indian canons of architecture and town planning, employs symmetrical drawings called mandalas. Complex calculations are used to arrive at the dimensions of a building and its components. The designs are intended to integrate architecture with nature, the relative functions of various parts of the structure, and ancient beliefs utilizing geometric patterns (yantra), symmetry and directional alignments.[57][58] However, early builders may have come upon mathematical proportions by accident. The mathematician Georges Ifrah notes that simple "tricks" with string and stakes can be used to lay out geometric shapes, such as ellipses and right angles.[12][59]
The mathematics of fractals has been used to show that the reason why existing buildings have universal appeal and are visually satisfying is because they provide the viewer with a sense of scale at different viewing distances. For example, in the tall gopuram gatehouses of Hindu temples such as the Virupaksha Temple at Hampi built in the seventh century, and others such as the Kandariya Mahadev Temple at Khajuraho, the parts and the whole have the same character, with fractal dimension in the range 1.7 to 1.8. The cluster of smaller towers (shikhara, lit. 'mountain') about the tallest, central, tower which represents the holy Mount Kailash, abode of Lord Shiva, depicts the endless repetition of universes in Hindu cosmology.[2][60] The religious studies scholar William J. Jackson observed of the pattern of towers grouped among smaller towers, themselves grouped among still smaller towers, that:
The ideal form gracefully artificed suggests the infinite rising levels of existence and consciousness, expanding sizes rising toward transcendence above, and at the same time housing the sacred deep within.[60][61]The Meenakshi Amman Temple is a large complex with multiple shrines, with the streets of Madurai laid out concentrically around it according to the shastras. The four gateways are tall towers (gopurams) with fractal-like repetitive structure as at Hampi. The enclosures around each shrine are rectangular and surrounded by high stone walls.[62]
Pythagoras (c. 569 – c. 475 B.C.) and his followers, the Pythagoreans, held that "all things are numbers". They observed the harmonies produced by notes with specific small-integer ratios of frequency, and argued that buildings too should be designed with such ratios. The Greek word symmetria originally denoted the harmony of architectural shapes in precise ratios from a building's smallest details right up to its entire design.[12]
The Parthenon is 69.5 metres (228 ft) long, 30.9 metres (101 ft) wide and 13.7 metres (45 ft) high to the cornice. This gives a ratio of width to length of 4:9, and the same for height to width. Putting these together gives height:width:length of 16:36:81, or to the delight[63] of the Pythagoreans 42:62:92. This sets the module as 0.858 m. A 4:9 rectangle can be constructed as three contiguous rectangles with sides in the ratio 3:4. Each half-rectangle is then a convenient 3:4:5 right triangle, enabling the angles and sides to be checked with a suitably knotted rope. The inner area (naos) similarly has 4:9 proportions (21.44 metres (70.3 ft) wide by 48.3 m long); the ratio between the diameter of the outer columns, 1.905 metres (6.25 ft), and the spacing of their centres, 4.293 metres (14.08 ft), is also 4:9.[12]
The Parthenon is considered by authors such as John Julius Norwich "the most perfect Doric temple ever built".[64] Its elaborate architectural refinements include "a subtle correspondence between the curvature of the stylobate, the taper of the naos walls and the entasis of the columns".[64] Entasis refers to the subtle diminution in diameter of the columns as they rise. The stylobate is the platform on which the columns stand. As in other classical Greek temples,[65] the platform has a slight parabolic upward curvature to shed rainwater and reinforce the building against earthquakes. The columns might therefore be supposed to lean outwards, but they actually lean slightly inwards so that if they carried on, they would meet about a kilometre and a half above the centre of the building; since they are all the same height, the curvature of the outer stylobate edge is transmitted to the architrave and roof above: "all follow the rule of being built to delicate curves".[66]
The golden ratio was known in 300 B.C., when Euclid described the method of geometric construction.[67] It has been argued that the golden ratio was used in the design of the Parthenon and other ancient Greek buildings, as well as sculptures, paintings, and vases.[68] More recent authors such as Nikos Salingaros, however, doubt all these claims.[69] Experiments by the computer scientist George Markowsky failed to find any preference for the golden rectangle.[70]
The historian of Islamic art Antonio Fernandez-Puertas suggests that the Alhambra, like the Great Mosque of Cordoba,[71] was designed using the Hispano-Muslim foot or codo of about 0.62 metres (2.0 ft). In the palace's Court of the Lions, the proportions follow a series of surds. A rectangle with sides 1 and √2 has (by Pythagoras's theorem) a diagonal of √3, which describes the right triangle made by the sides of the court; the series continues with √4 (giving a 1:2 ratio), √5 and so on. The decorative patterns are similarly proportioned, √2 generating squares inside circles and eight-pointed stars, √3 generating six-pointed stars. There is no evidence to support earlier claims that the golden ratio was used in the Alhambra.[10][72] The Court of the Lions is bracketed by the Hall of Two Sisters and the Hall of the Abencerrajes; a regular hexagon can be drawn from the centres of these two halls and the four inside corners of the Court of the Lions.[73]
The Selimiye Mosque in Edirne, Turkey, was built by Mimar Sinan to provide a space where the mihrab could be see from anywhere inside the building. The very large central space is accordingly arranged as an octagon, formed by eight enormous pillars, and capped by a circular dome of 31.25 metres (102.5 ft) diameter and 43 metres (141 ft) high. The octagon is formed into a square with four semidomes, and externally by four exceptionally tall minarets, 83 metres (272 ft) tall. The building's plan is thus a circle, inside an octagon, inside a square.[74]
Mughal architecture, as seen in the abandoned imperial city of Fatehpur Sikri and the Taj Mahal complex, has a distinctive mathematical order and a strong aesthetic based on symmetry and harmony.[11][75]
The Taj Mahal exemplifies Mughal architecture, both representing paradise[76] and displaying the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan's power through its scale, symmetry and costly decoration. The white marble mausoleum, decorated with pietra dura, the great gate (Darwaza-i rauza), other buildings, the gardens and paths together form a unified hierarchical design. The buildings include a mosque in red sandstone on the west, and an almost identical building, the Jawab or 'answer' on the east to maintain the bilateral symmetry of the complex. The formal charbagh ('fourfold garden') is in four parts, symbolising the four rivers of Paradise, and offering views and reflections of the mausoleum. These are divided in turn into 16 parterres.[77]
The Taj Mahal complex was laid out on a grid, subdivided into smaller grids. The historians of architecture Koch and Barraud agree with the traditional accounts that give the width of the complex as 374 Mughal yards or gaz,[g] the main area being three 374-gaz squares. These were divided in areas like the bazaar and caravanserai into 17-gaz modules; the garden and terraces are in modules of 23 gaz, and are 368 gaz wide (16 x 23). The mausoleum, mosque and guest house are laid out on a grid of 7 gaz. Koch and Barraud observe that if an octagon, used repeatedly in the complex, is given sides of 7 units, then it has a width of 17 units,[h] which may help to explain the choice of ratios in the complex.[78]
The Christian patriarchal basilica of Haghia Sophia in Byzantium (now Istanbul), first constructed in 537 (and twice rebuilt), was for a thousand years[i] the largest cathedral ever built. It inspired many later buildings including Sultan Ahmed and other mosques in the city. The Byzantine architecture includes a nave crowned by a circular dome and two half-domes, all of the same diameter (31 metres (102 ft)), with a further five smaller half-domes forming an apse and four rounded corners of a vast rectangular interior.[79] This was interpreted by mediaeval architects as representing the mundane below (the square base) and the divine heavens above (the soaring spherical dome).[80] The emperor Justinian used two geometers, Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles as architects; Isidore compiled the works of Archimedes on solid geometry, and was influenced by him.[12][81]
The importance of water baptism in Christianity was reflected in the scale of baptistry architecture. The oldest, the Lateran Baptistry in Rome, built in 440,[82] set a trend for octagonal baptistries; the baptismal font inside these buildings was often octagonal, though Italy's largest baptistry, at Pisa, built between 1152 and 1363, is circular, with an octagonal font. It is 54.86 metres (180.0 ft) high, with a diameter of 34.13 metres (112.0 ft) (a ratio of 8:5).[83] Saint Ambrose wrote that fonts and baptistries were octagonal "because on the eighth day,[j] by rising, Christ loosens the bondage of death and receives the dead from their graves."[84][85]
Saint Augustine similarly described the eighth day as "everlasting ... hallowed by the resurrection of Christ".[85][86] The octagonal Baptistry of Saint John, Florence, built between 1059 and 1128, is one of the oldest buildings in that city, and one of the last in the direct tradition of classical antiquity; it was extremely influential in the subsequent Florentine Renaissance, as major architects including Francesco Talenti, Alberti and Brunelleschi used it as the model of classical architecture.[87]
The number five is used "exuberantly"[88] in the 1721 Pilgrimage Church of St John of Nepomuk at Zelená hora, near Žďár nad Sázavou in the Czech republic, designed by Jan Blažej Santini Aichel. The nave is circular, surrounded by five pairs of columns and five oval domes alternating with ogival apses. The church further has five gates, five chapels, five altars and five stars; a legend claims that when Saint John of Nepomuk was martyred, five stars appeared over his head.[88][89] The fivefold architecture may also symbolise the five wounds of Christ and the five letters of "Tacui" (Latin: "I kept silence" [about secrets of the confessional]).[90]
Antoni Gaudí used a wide variety of geometric structures, some being minimal surfaces, in the Sagrada Família, Barcelona, started in 1882 (and not completed as of 2015). These include hyperbolic paraboloids and hyperboloids of revolution,[91] tessellations, catenary arches, catenoids, helicoids, and ruled surfaces. This varied mix of geometries is creatively combined in different ways around the church. For example, in the Passion Façade of Sagrada Família, Gaudí assembled stone "branches" in the form of hyperbolic paraboloids, which overlap at their tops (directrices) without, therefore, meeting at a point. In contrast, in the colonnade there are hyperbolic paraboloidal surfaces that smoothly join other structures to form unbounded surfaces. Further, Gaudí exploits natural patterns, themselves mathematical, with columns derived from the shapes of trees, and lintels made from unmodified basalt naturally cracked (by cooling from molten rock) into hexagonal columns.[92][93][94]
The 1971 Cathedral of Saint Mary of the Assumption, San Francisco has a saddle roof composed of eight segments of hyperbolic paraboloids, arranged so that the bottom horizontal cross section of the roof is a square and the top cross section is a Christian cross. The building is a square 77.7 metres (255 ft) on a side, and 57.9 metres (190 ft) high.[95] The 1970 Cathedral of Brasília by Oscar Niemeyer makes a different use of a hyperboloid structure; it is constructed from 16 identical concrete beams, each weighing 90 tonnes,[k] arranged in a circle to form a hyperboloid of revolution, the white beams creating a shape like hands praying to heaven. Only the dome is visible from outside: most of the building is below ground.[96][97][98][99]
Several medieval churches in Scandinavia are circular, including four on the Danish island of Bornholm. One of the oldest of these, Østerlars Church from c. 1160, has a circular nave around a massive circular stone column, pierced with arches and decorated with a fresco. The circular structure has three storeys and was apparently fortified, the top storey having served for defence.[100]
[101]
The vaulting of the nave of Haghia Sophia, Istanbul (annotations), 562
The octagonal Baptistry of Saint John, Florence, completed in 1128
Fivefold symmetries: Jan Santini Aichel's Pilgrimage Church of St John of Nepomuk at Zelená hora, 1721
Passion façade of Antoni Gaudí's Sagrada Família, Barcelona, started 1882
Oscar Niemeyer's Cathedral of Brasília, 1970
The Cathedral of Saint Mary of the Assumption, San Francisco, 1971
Central column of Østerlars Nordic round church in Bornholm, Denmark
Islamic buildings are often decorated with geometric patterns which typically make use of several mathematical tessellations, formed of ceramic tiles (girih, zellige) that may themselves be plain or decorated with stripes.[12] Symmetries such as stars with six, eight, or multiples of eight points are used in Islamic patterns. Some of these are based on the 'Khatem Sulemani' or Solomon's seal motif, which is an eight-pointed star made of two squares, one rotated 45 degrees from the other on the same centre.[102] Islamic patterns exploit many of the 17 possible wallpaper groups; as early as 1944, Edith Müller showed that the Alhambra made use of 11 wallpaper groups in its decorations, while in 1986 Branko Grünbaum claimed to have found 13 wallpaper groups in the Alhambra, asserting controversially that the remaining four groups are not found anywhere in Islamic ornament.[102]
The complex geometry and tilings of the muqarnas vaulting in the Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque, Isfahan, 1603–1619
Louvre Abu Dhabi under construction in 2015, its dome built up of layers of stars made of octagons, triangles, and squares
Towards the end of the 20th century, novel mathematical constructs such as fractal geometry and aperiodic tiling were seized upon by architects to provide interesting and attractive coverings for buildings.[4] In 1913, the Modernist architect Adolf Loos had declared that "Ornament is a crime",[103] influencing architectural thinking for the rest of the 20th century. In the 21st century, architects are again starting to explore the use of ornament. 21st century ornamentation is extremely diverse. Henning Larsen's 2011 Harpa Concert and Conference Centre, Reykjavik has what looks like a crystal wall of rock made of large blocks of glass.[103] Foreign Office Architects' 2010 Ravensbourne College, London is tessellated decoratively with 28,000 anodised aluminium tiles in red, white and brown, interlinking circular windows of differing sizes. The tessellation uses three types of tile, an equilateral triangle and two irregular pentagons.[104][105][l] Kazumi Kudo's Kanazawa Umimirai Library creates a decorative grid made of small circular blocks of glass set into plain concrete walls.[103]
Ravensbourne College, London, 2010
Harpa Concert and Conference Centre, Iceland, 2011
Kanazawa Umimirai Library, Japan, 2011
Museo Soumaya, México, 2011
The architecture of fortifications evolved from medieval fortresses, which had high masonry walls, to low, symmetrical star forts able to resist artillery bombardment between the mid-fifteenth and nineteenth centuries. The geometry of the star shapes was dictated by the need to avoid dead zones where attacking infantry could shelter from defensive fire; the sides of the projecting points were angled to permit such fire to sweep the ground, and to provide crossfire (from both sides) beyond each projecting point. Well-known architects who designed such defences include Michelangelo, Baldassare Peruzzi, Vincenzo Scamozzi and Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban.[106][107]
The architectural historian Siegfried Giedion argued that the star-shaped fortification had a formative influence on the patterning of the Renaissance ideal city: "The Renaissance was hypnotized by one city type which for a century and a half—from Filarete to Scamozzi—was impressed upon all utopian schemes: this is the star-shaped city."[108]
Coevorden fortification plan. 17th century
Palmanova, Italy, a Venetian city within a star fort. 17th century
Neuf-Brisach, Alsace, one of the Fortifications of Vauban
In Chinese architecture, the tulou of Fujian province are circular, communal defensive structures with mainly blank walls and a single iron-plated wooden door, some dating back to the sixteenth century. The walls are topped with roofs that slope gently both outwards and inwards, forming a ring. The centre of the circle is an open cobbled courtyard, often with a well, surrounded by timbered galleries up to five stories high.[109]
Architects may also select the form of a building to meet environmental goals.[88] For example, Foster and Partners' 30 St Mary Axe, London, known as "The Gherkin" for its cucumber-like shape, is a solid of revolution designed using parametric modelling. Its geometry was chosen not purely for aesthetic reasons, but to minimise whirling air currents at its base. Despite the building's apparently curved surface, all the panels of glass forming its skin are flat, except for the lens at the top. Most of the panels are quadrilaterals, as they can be cut from rectangular glass with less wastage than triangular panels.[1]

The traditional yakhchal (ice pit) of Persia functioned as an evaporative cooler. Above ground, the structure had a domed shape, but had a subterranean storage space for ice and sometimes food as well. The subterranean space and the thick heat-resistant construction insulated the storage space year round. The internal space was often further cooled with windcatchers.[110]In contemporary education, mathematics education is the practice of teaching and learning mathematics, along with the associated scholarly research.
Researchers in mathematics education are primarily concerned with the tools, methods and approaches that facilitate practice or the study of practice; however, mathematics education research, known on the continent of Europe as the didactics or pedagogy of mathematics, has developed into an extensive field of study, with its concepts, theories, methods, national and international organisations, conferences and literature. This article describes some of the history, influences and recent controversies.
Elementary mathematics was part of the education system in most ancient civilisations, including Ancient Greece, the Roman Empire, Vedic society and ancient Egypt. In most cases, formal education was only available to male children with sufficiently high status, wealth or caste. 
In Plato's division of the liberal arts into the trivium and the quadrivium, the quadrivium included the mathematical fields of arithmetic and geometry. This structure was continued in the structure of classical education that was developed in medieval Europe. The teaching of geometry was almost universally based on Euclid's Elements. Apprentices to trades such as masons, merchants and money-lenders could expect to learn such practical mathematics as was relevant to their profession.
In the Renaissance, the academic status of mathematics declined, because it was strongly associated with trade and commerce, and considered somewhat un-Christian.[1] Although it continued to be taught in European universities, it was seen as subservient to the study of Natural, Metaphysical and Moral Philosophy.  The first modern arithmetic curriculum (starting with addition, then subtraction, multiplication, and division) arose at reckoning schools in Italy in the 1300s.[2]  Spreading along trade routes, these methods were designed to be used in commerce. They contrasted with Platonic math taught at universities, which was more philosophical and concerned numbers as concepts rather than calculating methods.[2]  They also contrasted with mathematical methods learned by artisan apprentices, which were specific to the tasks and tools at hand. For example, the division of a board into thirds can be accomplished with a piece of string, instead of measuring the length and using the arithmetic operation of division.[1]
The first mathematics textbooks to be written in English and French were published by Robert Recorde, beginning with The Grounde of Artes in 1543. However, there are many different writings on mathematics and mathematics methodology that date back to 1800 BCE.  These were mostly located in Mesopotamia where the Sumerians were practicing multiplication and division.  There are also artifacts demonstrating their methodology for solving equations like the quadratic equation.  After the Sumerians, some of the most famous ancient works on mathematics come from Egypt in the form of the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus and the Moscow Mathematical Papyrus.  The more famous Rhind Papyrus has been dated to approximately 1650 BCE but it is thought to be a copy of an even older scroll.  This papyrus was essentially an early textbook for Egyptian students.
The social status of mathematical study was improving by the seventeenth century, with the University of Aberdeen creating a Mathematics Chair in 1613, followed by the Chair in Geometry being set up in University of Oxford in 1619 and the Lucasian Chair of Mathematics being established by the University of Cambridge in 1662.
In the 18th and 19th centuries, the Industrial Revolution led to an enormous increase in urban populations. Basic numeracy skills, such as the ability to tell the time, count money and carry out simple arithmetic, became essential in this new urban lifestyle. Within the new public education systems, mathematics became a central part of the curriculum from an early age.
By the twentieth century, mathematics was part of the core curriculum in all developed countries.
During the twentieth century, mathematics education was established as an independent field of research. Here are some of the main events in this development:
In the 20th century, the cultural impact of the "electronic age" (McLuhan) was also taken up by educational theory and the teaching of mathematics. While previous approach focused on "working with specialized 'problems' in arithmetic", the emerging structural approach to knowledge had "small children meditating about number theory and 'sets'."[4]
At different times and in different cultures and countries, mathematics education has attempted to achieve a variety of different objectives. These objectives have included:
The method or methods used in any particular context are largely determined by the objectives that the relevant educational system is trying to achieve. Methods of teaching mathematics include the following:
Different levels of mathematics are taught at different ages and in somewhat different sequences in different countries. Sometimes a class may be taught at an earlier age than typical as a special or honors class.
Elementary mathematics in most countries is taught similarly, though there are differences. Most countries tend to cover fewer topics in greater depth than in the United States.[18] During the primary school years, children learn about whole numbers and arithmetic, including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.[19] Comparisons and measurement are taught, in both numeric and pictorial form, as well as fractions and proportionality, patterns, and various topics related to geometry.[20]
At high school level, 
in most of the U.S., algebra, geometry and analysis (pre-calculus and calculus) are taught as separate courses in different years. 
Mathematics in most other countries (and in a few U.S. states) is integrated, with topics from all branches of mathematics studied every year. Students in many countries choose an option or pre-defined course of study rather than choosing courses à la carte as in the United States. 
Students in science-oriented curricula typically study differential calculus and trigonometry at age 16–17 and integral calculus, complex numbers, analytic geometry, exponential and logarithmic functions, and infinite series in their final year of secondary school. Probability and statistics may be taught in secondary education classes. 
In some countries, these topics are available as "advanced" or "additional" mathematics.
At college and university, 
science- and engineering students will be required to take multivariable calculus, differential equations, and linear algebra;
at several US colleges, the minor or AS in mathematics substantively comprises these courses.
Mathematics majors continue, to study various other areas within pure mathematics - and often in applied mathematics -  with the requirement of specified advanced courses in analysis and modern algebra.
Applied mathematics may be taken as a major subject in its own right, while specific topics are taught within other courses: 
for example, 
civil engineers may be required to study fluid mechanics,[21] 
and "math for computer science" might include graph theory, permutation, probability, and formal mathematical proofs.[22] 
Pure and applied math degrees often include modules in probability theory / mathematical statistics; while a course in numerical methods is a common requirement for applied math.
(Theoretical) physics is mathematics intensive, often overlapping substantively with the pure or applied math degree.
("Business mathematics" is usually limited to introductory calculus and, sometimes, matrix calculations. Economics programs additionally cover optimization, often differential equations and linear algebra, sometimes analysis.)
Throughout most of history, standards for mathematics education were set locally, by individual schools or teachers, depending on the levels of achievement that were relevant to, realistic for, and considered socially appropriate for their pupils.
In modern times, there has been a move towards regional or national standards, usually under the umbrella of a wider standard school curriculum. In England, for example, standards for mathematics education are set as part of the National Curriculum for England,[23] while Scotland maintains its own educational system. Many other countries have centralized ministries which set national standards or curricula, and sometimes even textbooks.
Ma (2000) summarised the research of others who found, based on nationwide data, that students with higher scores on standardised mathematics tests had taken more mathematics courses in high school. This led some states to require three years of mathematics instead of two. But because this requirement was often met by taking another lower-level mathematics course, the additional courses had a “diluted” effect in raising achievement levels.[24]
In North America, the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) published the Principles and Standards for School Mathematics in 2000 for the US and Canada, which boosted the trend towards reform mathematics. In 2006, the NCTM released Curriculum Focal Points, which recommend the most important mathematical topics for each grade level through grade 8.  However, these standards were guidelines to implement as American states and Canadian provinces chose. In 2010, the National Governors Association Center for Best Practices and the Council of Chief State School Officers published the Common Core State Standards for US states, which were subsequently adopted by most states. Adoption of the Common Core State Standards in mathematics is at the discretion of each state, and is not mandated by the federal government.[25] "States routinely review their academic standards and may choose to change or add onto the standards to best meet the needs of their students."[26] The NCTM has state affiliates that have different education standards at the state level. For example, Missouri has the Missouri Council of Teachers of Mathematics (MCTM) which has its pillars and standards of education listed on its website. The MCTM also offers membership opportunities to teachers and future teachers so they can stay up to date on the changes in math educational standards.[27]
The Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), created by the Organisation for the Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), is a global program studying the reading, science and mathematic abilities of 15-year-old students.[28] The first assessment was conducted in the year 2000 with 43 countries participating.[29] PISA has repeated this assessment every three years to provide comparable data, helping to guide global education to better prepare youth for future economies. There have been many ramifications following the results of triennial PISA assessments due to implicit and explicit responses of stakeholders, which have led to education reform and policy change.[29][30][13]
"Robust, useful theories of classroom teaching do not yet exist".[31] However, there are useful theories on how children learn mathematics and much research has been conducted in recent decades to explore how these theories can be applied to teaching. The following results are examples of some of the current findings in the field of mathematics education:
As with other educational research (and the social sciences in general), mathematics education research depends on both quantitative and qualitative studies. Quantitative research includes studies that use inferential statistics to answer specific questions, such as whether a certain teaching method gives significantly better results than the status quo. The best quantitative studies involve randomized trials where students or classes are randomly assigned different methods to test their effects. They depend on large samples to obtain statistically significant results.
Qualitative research, such as case studies, action research, discourse analysis, and clinical interviews, depend on small but focused samples in an attempt to understand student learning and to look at how and why a given method gives the results it does. Such studies cannot conclusively establish that one method is better than another, as randomized trials can, but unless it is understood why treatment X is better than treatment Y, application of results of quantitative studies will often lead to "lethal mutations"[31] of the finding in actual classrooms. Exploratory qualitative research is also useful for suggesting new hypotheses, which can eventually be tested by randomized experiments. Both qualitative and quantitative studies, therefore, are considered essential in education—just as in the other social sciences.[35] Many studies are “mixed”, simultaneously combining aspects of both quantitative and qualitative research, as appropriate.
There has been some controversy over the relative strengths of different types of research. Because randomized trials provide clear, objective evidence on “what works”, policymakers often consider only those studies. Some scholars have pushed for more random experiments in which teaching methods are randomly assigned to classes.[36][37] In other disciplines concerned with human subjects, like biomedicine, psychology, and policy evaluation, controlled, randomized experiments remain the preferred method of evaluating treatments.[38][39] Educational statisticians and some mathematics educators have been working to increase the use of randomized experiments to evaluate teaching methods.[37] On the other hand, many scholars in educational schools have argued against increasing the number of randomized experiments, often because of philosophical objections, such as the ethical difficulty of randomly assigning students to various treatments when the effects of such treatments are not yet known to be effective,[40] or the difficulty of assuring rigid control of the independent variable in fluid, real school settings.[41]
In the United States, the National Mathematics Advisory Panel (NMAP) published a report in 2008 based on studies, some of which used randomized assignment of treatments to experimental units, such as classrooms or students.  The NMAP report's preference for randomized experiments received criticism from some scholars.[42] In 2010, the What Works Clearinghouse (essentially the research arm for the Department of Education) responded to ongoing controversy by extending its research base to include non-experimental studies, including regression discontinuity designs and single-case studies.[43]
The discipline of origami or paper folding has received a considerable amount of mathematical study. Fields of interest include a given paper model's flat-foldability (whether the model can be flattened without damaging it), and the use of paper folds to solve up-to cubic mathematical equations.[1]
Computational origami is a recent branch of computer science that is concerned with studying algorithms that solve paper-folding problems. The field of computational origami has also grown significantly since its inception in the 1990s with Robert Lang's TreeMaker algorithm to assist in the precise folding of bases.[2] Computational origami results either address origami design or origami foldability.[3] In origami design problems, the goal is to design an object that can be folded out of paper given a specific target configuration. In origami foldability problems, the goal is to fold something using creases of an initial configuration. Results in origami design problems have been more accessible than in origami foldability problems.[3]
In 1893, Indian civil servant T. Sundara Rao published Geometric Exercises in Paper Folding which used paper folding to demonstrate proofs of geometrical constructions. This work was inspired by the use of origami in the kindergarten system. Rao demonstrated an approximate trisection of angles and implied construction of a cube root was impossible.[4]
In 1922, Harry Houdini published "Houdini's Paper Magic," which described origami techniques that drew informally from mathematical approaches that were later formalized.[5]
In 1936 Margharita P. Beloch showed that use of the 'Beloch fold', later used in the sixth of the Huzita–Hatori axioms, allowed the general cubic equation to be solved using origami.[1]
In 1949, R C Yeates' book "Geometric Methods" described three allowed constructions corresponding to the first, second, and fifth of the Huzita–Hatori axioms.[6][7]
The Yoshizawa–Randlett system of instruction by diagram was introduced in 1961.[8]
In 1980 was reported a construction which enabled an angle to be trisected. Trisections are impossible under Euclidean rules.[9]
Also in 1980, Kōryō Miura and Masamori Sakamaki demonstrated a novel map-folding technique whereby the folds are made in a prescribed parallelogram pattern, which allows the map to be expandable without any right-angle folds in the conventional manner. Their pattern allows the fold lines to be interdependent, and hence the map can be unpacked in one motion by pulling on its opposite ends, and likewise folded by pushing the two ends together. No unduly complicated series of movements are required, and folded Miura-ori can be packed into a very compact shape.[10] In 1985 Miura reported a method of packaging and deployment of large membranes in outer space,[11] and as early as 2012 this technique had been applied to solar panels on spacecraft.[12][13]
In 1986, Messer reported a construction by which one could double the cube, which is impossible with Euclidean constructions.[14]
The first complete statement of the seven axioms of origami by French folder and mathematician Jacques Justin was written in 1986, but were overlooked until the first six were rediscovered by Humiaki Huzita in 1989.[15] The first International Meeting of Origami Science and Technology (now known as the International Conference on Origami in Science, Math, and Education) was held in 1989 in Ferrara, Italy. At this meeting, a construction was given by Scimemi for the regular heptagon.[16]
Around 1990, Robert J. Lang and others first attempted to write computer code that would solve origami problems.[17]
In 1996, Marshall Bern and Barry Hayes showed to be an NP-complete problem the assignation of a crease pattern of mountain and valley folds in order to produce a flat origami structure starting from a flat sheet of paper.[18]
In 1999, a theorem due to Haga provided constructions used to divide the side of a square into rational fractions.[19][20]
In late 2001 and early 2002, Britney Gallivan proved the minimum length of paper necessary to fold it in half a certain number of times and folded a 4,000-foot-long (1,200 m) piece of toilet paper twelve times.[21][22]
In 2002, belcastro and Hull brought to the theoretical origami the language of affine transformations, with an extension from 



R


{\displaystyle R}

2 to 



R


{\displaystyle R}

3 in only the case of single-vertex construction.[23]
In 2002, Alperin solved Alhazen's problem of spherical optics.[24] In the same paper, Alperin showed a construction for a regular heptagon.[24] In 2004, was proven algorithmically the fold pattern for a regular heptagon.[25] Bisections and trisections were used by Alperin in 2005 for the same construction.[26]
In 2003, Jeremy Gibbons, a researcher from the University of Oxford, described a style of functional programming in terms of origami. He coined this paradigm as "origami programming." He characterizes fold and unfolds as natural patterns of computation over recursive datatypes that can be framed in the context of origami.[27]
In 2005, principles and concepts from mathematical and computational origami were applied to solve Countdown, a game popularized in British television in which competitors used a list of source numbers to build an arithmetic expression as close to the target number as possible.[28]
In 2009, Alperin and Lang extended the theoretical origami to rational equations of arbitrary degree, with the concept of manifold creases.[29][30] This work was a formal extension of Lang's unpublished 2004 demonstration of angle quintisection.[30][31]
The construction of origami models is sometimes shown as crease patterns. The major question about such crease patterns is whether a given crease pattern can be folded to a flat model, and if so, how to fold them; this is an NP-complete problem.[32] Related problems when the creases are orthogonal are called map folding problems. There are three mathematical rules for producing flat-foldable origami crease patterns:[33]
Paper exhibits zero Gaussian curvature at all points on its surface, and only folds naturally along lines of zero curvature.  Curved surfaces that can't be flattened can be produced using a non-folded crease in the paper, as is easily done with wet paper or a fingernail.
Assigning a crease pattern mountain and valley folds in order to produce a flat model has been proven by Marshall Bern and Barry Hayes to be NP-complete.[18] Further references and technical results are discussed in Part II of Geometric Folding Algorithms.[34]
Some classical construction problems of geometry — namely trisecting an arbitrary angle or doubling the cube — are proven to be unsolvable using compass and straightedge, but can be solved using only a few paper folds.[35] Paper fold strips can be constructed to solve equations up to degree 4. The Huzita–Justin axioms or Huzita–Hatori axioms are an important contribution to this field of study. These describe what can be constructed using a sequence of creases with at most two point or line alignments at once. Complete methods for solving all equations up to degree 4 by applying methods satisfying these axioms are discussed in detail in Geometric Origami.[36]
As a result of origami study through the application of geometric principles, methods such as Haga's theorem have allowed paperfolders to accurately fold the side of a square into thirds, fifths, sevenths, and ninths. Other theorems and methods have allowed paperfolders to get other shapes from a square, such as equilateral triangles, pentagons, hexagons, and special rectangles such as the golden rectangle and the silver rectangle. Methods for folding most regular polygons up to and including the regular 19-gon have been developed.[36] A regular n-gon can be constructed by paper folding if and only if n is a product of distinct Pierpont primes, powers of two, and powers of three.
The side of a square can be divided at an arbitrary rational fraction in a variety of ways. Haga's theorems say that a particular set of constructions can be used for such divisions.[19][20] Surprisingly few folds are necessary to generate large odd fractions. For instance 1⁄5 can be generated with three folds; first halve a side, then use Haga's theorem twice to produce first 2⁄3 and then 1⁄5.
The accompanying diagram shows Haga's first theorem:
The function changing the length AP to QC is self inverse. Let x be AP then a number of other lengths are also rational  functions of x. For example:
Haga's theorems are generalized as follows: 
Therefore, BQ:CQ=k:1 implies AP:BP=k:2 for a positive real number k.[37]
The classical problem of doubling the cube can be solved using origami. This construction is due to Peter Messer:[38]  A square of paper is first creased into three equal strips as shown in the diagram. Then the bottom edge is positioned so the corner point P is on the top edge and the crease mark on the edge meets the other crease mark Q. The length PB will then be the cube root of 2 times the length of AP.[14]
The edge with the crease mark is considered a marked straightedge, something which is not allowed in compass and straightedge constructions.  Using a marked straightedge in this way is called a neusis construction in geometry.
Angle trisection is another of the classical problems that cannot be solved using a compass and unmarked ruler but can be solved using origami.[39] This construction, which was reported in 1980, is due to Hisashi Abe.[38][9] The angle CAB is trisected by making  folds PP' and QQ' parallel to the base with QQ' halfway in between. Then point P is folded over to lie on line AC and at the same time point A is made to lie on line QQ' at A'. The angle A'AB is one third of the original angle CAB. This is because PAQ, A'AQ and A'AR are three congruent triangles. Aligning the two points on the two lines is another neusis construction as in the solution to doubling the cube.[40][9]
The problem of rigid origami, treating the folds as hinges joining two flat, rigid surfaces, such as sheet metal, has great practical importance. For example, the Miura map fold is a rigid fold that has been used to deploy large solar panel arrays for space satellites.
The napkin folding problem is the problem of whether a square or rectangle of paper can be folded so the perimeter of the flat figure is greater than that of the original square.
The placement of a point on a curved fold in the pattern may require the solution of elliptic integrals. Curved origami allows the paper to form developable surfaces that are not flat.[41] Wet-folding origami is a technique evolved by Yoshizawa that allows curved folds to create an even greater range of shapes of higher order complexity.

The maximum number of times an incompressible material can be folded has been derived. With each fold a certain amount of paper is lost to potential folding.  The loss function for folding paper in half in a single direction was given to be 



L
=




π
t

6



(

2

n


+
4
)
(

2

n


−
1
)


{\displaystyle L={\tfrac {\pi t}{6}}(2^{n}+4)(2^{n}-1)}

, where L is the minimum length of the paper (or other material), t is the material's thickness, and n is the number of folds possible.[42]  The distances L and t must be expressed in the same units, such as inches. This result was derived by Britney Gallivan, a high schooler from California, in December 2001. In January 2002, she folded a 4,000-foot-long (1,200 m) piece of toilet paper twelve times in the same direction, debunking a long-standing myth that paper cannot be folded in half more than eight times.[21][22]
The fold-and-cut problem asks what shapes can be obtained by folding a piece of paper flat, and making a single straight complete cut. The solution, known as the fold-and-cut theorem, states that any shape with straight sides can be obtained.
A practical problem is how to fold a map so that it may be manipulated with minimal effort or movements. The Miura fold is a solution to the problem, and several others have been proposed.[43]
Computational origami is a branch of computer science that is concerned with studying algorithms for solving paper-folding problems. In the early 1990s, origamists participated in a series of origami contests called the Bug Wars in which artists attempted to out-compete their peers by adding complexity to their origami bugs. Most competitors in the contest belonged to the Origami Detectives, a group of acclaimed Japanese artists.[44] Robert Lang, a research-scientist from Stanford University and the California Institute of Technology, also participated in the contest. The contest helped initialize a collective interest in developing universal models and tools to aid in origami design and foldability.[44]
Paper-folding problems are classified as either origami design or origami foldability problems. There are predominantly three current categories of computational origami research: universality results, efficient decision algorithms, and computational intractability results.[45] A universality result defines the bounds of possibility given a particular model of folding. For example, a large enough piece of paper can be folded into any tree-shaped origami base, polygonal silhouette, and polyhedral surface.[46] When universality results are not attainable, efficient decision algorithms can be used to test whether an object is foldable in polynomial time.[45] Certain paper-folding problems do not have efficient algorithms. Computational intractability results show that there are no such polynomial-time algorithms that currently exist to solve certain folding problems. For example, it is NP-hard to evaluate whether a given crease pattern folds into any flat origami.[47]
In 2017, Erik Demaine of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tomohiro Tachi of the University of Tokyo published a new universal algorithm that generates practical paper-folding patterns to produce any 3-D structure. The new algorithm built upon work that they presented in their paper in 1999 that first introduced a universal algorithm for folding origami shapes that guarantees a minimum number of seams. The algorithm will be included in Origamizer, a free software for generating origami crease patterns that was first released by Tachi in 2008.[48]
There are several software design tools that are used for origami design. Users specify the desired shape or functionality and the software tool constructs the fold pattern and/or 2D or 3D model of the result. Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Georgia Tech, University of California Irvine, University of Tsukuba, and University of Tokyo have developed and posted publicly available tools in computational origami. TreeMaker, ReferenceFinder, OrigamiDraw, and Origamizer are among the tools that have been used in origami design.[49]
There are other software solutions associated with building computational origami models using non-paper materials such as Cadnano in DNA origami.[50]
Computational origami has contributed to applications in robotics, biotechnology & medicine, industrial design.[51] Applications for origami have also been developed in the study of programming languages and programming paradigms, particular in the setting of functional programming.[52]
Robert Lang participated in a project with researchers at EASi Engineering in Germany to develop automotive airbag folding designs.[53] In the mid-2000s, Lang worked with researchers at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory to develop a solution for the James Webb Space Telescope, particularly its large mirrors, to fit into a rocket using principles and algorithms from computational origami.[54]
In 2014, researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University, and the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering published a method for building self-folding machines and credited advances in computational origami for the project's success. Their origami-inspired robot was reported to fold itself in 4 minutes and walk away without human intervention, which demonstrated the potential for autonomous self-controlled assembly in robotics.[55]
Other applications include DNA origami and RNA origami, folding of manufacturing instruments, and surgery by tiny origami robots.[56]
Applications of computational origami have been featured by various production companies and commercials. Lang famously worked with Toyota Avalon to feature an animated origami sequence, Mitsubishi Endeavor to create a world entirely out of origami figures, and McDonald's to form numerous origami figures from cheeseburger wrappers.[57]

Sudoku puzzles can be studied mathematically to answer questions such as "How many filled Sudoku grids are there?", "What is the minimal number of clues in a valid puzzle?" and "In what ways can Sudoku grids be symmetric?" through the use of combinatorics and group theory.
The main results are that for the classical Sudoku the number of filled grids is 6,670,903,752,021,072,936,960 (6.67×1021), which reduces to 5,472,730,538 essentially different groups under the validity preserving transformations. There are 26 types of symmetry, but they can only be found in about 0.005% of all filled grids. A puzzle with a unique solution must have at least 17 clues, and there is a solvable puzzle with at most 21 clues for every solved grid. The largest minimal puzzle found so far has 40 clues.
Similar results are known for variants and smaller grids. No exact results are known for Sudokus larger than the classical 9×9 grid, although there are estimates which are believed to be fairly accurate.
The analysis of Sudoku falls into two main areas:
Initial analysis was largely focused on enumerating solutions, with results first appearing in 2004.[1]
There are many Sudoku variants, partially characterized by size (N), and the shape of their regions. Unless noted, discussion in this article assumes classic Sudoku, i.e. N=9 (a 9×9 grid and 3×3 regions). A rectangular Sudoku uses rectangular regions of row-column dimension R×C. Other variants include those with irregularly-shaped regions or with additional constraints (hypercube) or different constraint types (Samunamupure).
Regions are also called blocks or boxes. A band is a part of the grid that encapsulates 3 rows and 3 boxes, and a stack is a part of the grid that encapsulates 3 columns and 3 boxes. A puzzle is a partially completed grid, and the initial values are givens or clues. A proper puzzle has a unique solution. A minimal puzzle is a proper puzzle from which no clue can be removed without introducing additional solutions. See Glossary of Sudoku for other terminology.
Solving Sudokus from the viewpoint of a player has been explored in Denis Berthier's book "The Hidden Logic of Sudoku" (2007)[2] which considers strategies such as "hidden xy-chains".
The general problem of solving Sudoku puzzles on n2×n2 grids of n×n blocks is known to be NP-complete.[3]
A puzzle can be expressed as a graph coloring problem.[4] The aim is to construct a 9-coloring of a particular graph, given a partial 9-coloring. The Sudoku graph has 81 vertices, one vertex for each cell. The vertices are labeled with ordered pairs (x, y), where x and y are integers between 1 and 9. In this case, two distinct vertices labeled by (x, y) and (x′, y′) are joined by an edge if and only if:
The puzzle is then completed by assigning an integer between 1 and 9 to each vertex, in such a way that vertices that are joined by an edge do not have the same integer assigned to them.
A Sudoku solution grid is also a Latin square.[4] There are significantly fewer Sudoku grids than Latin squares because Sudoku imposes the additional regional constraint.
As in the case of Latin squares the (addition- or) multiplication tables (Cayley tables) of finite groups can be used to construct Sudokus and related tables of numbers. Namely, one has to take subgroups and quotient groups into account:
Take for example 





Z


n


⊕


Z


n




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{n}\oplus \mathbb {Z} _{n}}

 the group of pairs, adding each component separately modulo some 



n


{\displaystyle n}

.
By omitting one of the components, we suddenly find ourselves in 





Z


n




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{n}}

 (and this mapping is obviously compatible with the respective additions, i.e. it is a group homomorphism).
One also says that the latter is a quotient group of the former, because some once different elements become equal in the new group.
However, it is also a subgroup, because we can simply fill the missing component with 



0


{\displaystyle 0}

 to get back to 





Z


n


⊕


Z


n




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{n}\oplus \mathbb {Z} _{n}}

.
Under this view, we write down the example, Grid 1, for 



n
=
3


{\displaystyle n=3}

.
Each Sudoku region looks the same on the second component (namely like the subgroup 





Z


3




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{3}}

), because these are added regardless of the first one.
On the other hand, the first components are equal in each block, and if we imagine each block as one cell, these first components show the same pattern (namely the quotient group 





Z


3




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{3}}

). As outlined in the article of Latin squares, this is a Latin square of order 



9


{\displaystyle 9}

.
Now, to yield a Sudoku, let us permute the rows (or equivalently the columns) in such a way, that each block is redistributed exactly once into each block – for example order them 



1
,
4
,
7
,
2
,
5
,
8
,
3
,
6
,
9


{\displaystyle 1,4,7,2,5,8,3,6,9}

.
This of course preserves the Latin square property. Furthermore, in each block the lines have distinct first component by construction
and each line in a block has distinct entries via the second component, because the blocks' second components originally formed a Latin square of order 



3


{\displaystyle 3}

 (from the subgroup 





Z


3




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{3}}

). Thus we arrive at a Sudoku (rename the pairs to numbers 1...9 if you wish). With the example and the row permutation above, we arrive at Grid 2.
For this method to work, one generally does not need a product of two equally-sized groups. A so-called short exact sequence of finite groups
of appropriate size already does the job. Try for example the group 





Z


4




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{4}}

 with quotient- and subgroup 





Z


2




{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} _{2}}

.
It seems clear (already from enumeration arguments), that not all Sudokus can be generated this way.
A Sudoku whose regions are not (necessarily) square or rectangular is known as a Jigsaw Sudoku. In particular, an N×N square where N is prime can only be tiled with irregular N-ominoes. For small values of N the number of ways to tile the square (excluding symmetries) has been computed (sequence A172477 in the OEIS).[5] For N ≥ 4 some of these tilings are not compatible with any Latin square; i.e. all Sudoku puzzles on such a tiling have no solution.[5]
The answer to the question 'How many Sudoku grids are there?' depends on the definition of when similar solutions are considered different.
For the enumeration of all possible solutions, two solutions are considered distinct if any of their corresponding (81) cell values differ. Symmetry relations between similar solutions are ignored., e.g. the rotations of a solution are considered distinct. Symmetries play a significant role in the enumeration strategy, but not in the count of all possible solutions.
The first known solution to complete enumeration was posted by QSCGZ (Guenter Stertenbrink) to the rec.puzzles newsgroup in 2003,[6][7] obtaining 6,670,903,752,021,072,936,960 (6.67×1021) distinct solutions.
In a 2005 study, Felgenhauer and Jarvis[8][7] analyzed the permutations of the top band used in valid solutions. Once the Band1 symmetries and equivalence classes for the partial grid solutions were identified, the completions of the lower two bands were constructed and counted for each equivalence class. Summing completions over the equivalence classes, weighted by class size, gives the total number of solutions as 6,670,903,752,021,072,936,960, confirming the value obtained by QSCGZ. The value was subsequently confirmed numerous times independently. A second enumeration technique based on band generation was later developed that is significantly less computationally intensive.
This subsequent technique resulted in roughly needing 1/97 of the number of computation cycles as the original techniques, but was significantly more complicated to set up.
The precise structure of the sudoku symmetry group can be expressed succinctly using the wreath product (≀). The possible row (or column) permutations form a group isomorphic to S3 ≀ S3 of order 3!4 = 1,296.[9] The whole rearrangement group is formed by letting the transposition operation (isomorphic to C2) act on two copies of that group, one for the row permutations and one for the column permutations. This is S3 ≀ S3 ≀ C2, a group of order 1,2962 × 2 = 3,359,232. Finally, the relabelling operations commute with the rearrangement operations, so the full sudoku (VPT) group is (S3 ≀ S3 ≀ C2) × S9 of order 1,218,998,108,160.
The set of equivalent grids which can be reached using these operations (excluding relabeling) forms an orbit of grids under the action of the rearrangement group. The number of essentially different solutions is then the number of orbits, which can be computed using Burnside's lemma. The Burnside fixed points are grids that either do not change under the rearrangement operation or only differ by relabeling. To simplify the calculation the elements of the rearrangement group are sorted into conjugacy classes, whose elements all have the same number of fixed points. It turns out only 27 of the 275 conjugacy classes of the rearrangement group have fixed points;[10] these conjugacy classes represent the different types of symmetry (self-similarity or automorphism) that can be found in completed sudoku grids. Using this technique, Ed Russell and Frazer Jarvis were the first to compute the number of essentially different sudoku solutions as 5,472,730,538.[10][11]
Ordinary Sudokus (proper puzzles) have a unique solution. A minimal Sudoku is a Sudoku from which no clue can be removed leaving it a proper Sudoku. Different minimal Sudokus can have a different number of clues. This section discusses the minimum number of givens for proper puzzles.
Many Sudokus have been found with 17 clues, although finding them is not a trivial task.[16][17] A paper by Gary McGuire, Bastian Tugemann, and Gilles Civario, released on 1 January 2012, explains how it was proved through an exhaustive computer search that the minimum number of clues in any proper Sudoku is 17.[18][19][9]
A Sudoku with 24 clues, dihedral symmetry (symmetry on both orthogonal axis, 90° rotational symmetry, 180° rotational symmetry, and diagonal symmetry) is known to exist. It is not known if this number of clues is minimal for this class of Sudoku.[14][20] The fewest clues in a Sudoku with two-way diagonal symmetry is believed to be 18, and in at least one case such a Sudoku also exhibits automorphism.
The number of minimal Sudokus (Sudokus in which no clue can be deleted without losing uniqueness of the solution) is not precisely known. However, statistical techniques combined with a generator ('Unbiased Statistics of a CSP – A Controlled-Bias Generator'),[22] show that there are approximately (with 0.065% relative error):
The Mathematical Association of America (MAA) is a professional society that focuses on mathematics accessible at the undergraduate level. Members include university, college, and high school teachers; graduate and undergraduate students; pure and applied mathematicians; computer scientists; statisticians; and many others in academia, government, business, and industry.
The MAA was founded in 1915 and is headquartered at 1529 18th Street, Northwest in the Dupont Circle neighborhood of Washington, D.C. The organization publishes mathematics journals and books, including the American Mathematical Monthly (established in 1894 by Benjamin Finkel), the most widely read mathematics journal in the world according to records on JSTOR.[1]
The mission of the MAA is to advance the understanding of mathematics and its impact on our world.
We envision a society that values the power and beauty of mathematics and fully realizes its potential to promote human flourishing.
The MAA sponsors the annual summer MathFest and cosponsors with the American Mathematical Society the Joint Mathematics Meeting, held in early January of each year. On occasion the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics joins in these meetings.  Twenty-nine regional sections also hold regular meetings.
The association publishes multiple journals in partnership with Taylor & Francis:[2]
MAA FOCUS is the association member newsletter. The Association publishes an online resource, Mathematical Sciences Digital Library (Math DL). The service launched in 2001 with the online-only Journal of Online Mathematics and its Applications (JOMA) and a set of classroom tools, Digital Classroom Resources. These were followed in 2004 by Convergence, an online-only history magazine, and in 2005 by MAA Reviews, an online book review service,  and Classroom Capsules and Notes, a set of classroom notes.[3]
The MAA sponsors numerous competitions for students, including the William Lowell Putnam Competition for undergraduate students, the online competition series, and the American Mathematics Competitions (AMC) for middle- and high-school students.  This series of competitions is as follows:
Through this program, outstanding students are identified and invited to participate in the Mathematical Olympiad Program. Ultimately, six high school students are chosen to represent the U.S. at the International Mathematics Olympiad.
The MAA is composed of the following twenty-nine regional sections:
Allegheny Mountain, EPADEL, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Intermountain, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana/Mississippi, MD-DC-VA, Metro New York, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska – SE SD, New Jersey, North Central, Northeastern, Northern CA – NV-HI, Ohio, Oklahoma-Arkansas, Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountain, Seaway, Southeastern, Southern CA – NV, Southwestern, Texas, Wisconsin
There are seventeen Special Interest Groups of the Mathematical Association of America (SIGMAAs).  These SIGMAAs were established to advance the MAA mission by supporting groups with a common mathematical interest, and facilitating interaction between such groups and the greater mathematics community.[4]
The MAA distributes many prizes, including the Chauvenet Prize[6] and the Carl B. Allendoerfer Award,[7] Trevor Evans Award,[8] Lester R. Ford Award, George Pólya Award,[9] Merten M. Hasse Prize,[10] Henry L. Alder Award,[11] Euler Book Prize awards, the Yueh-Gin Gung and Dr. Charles Y. Hu Award for Distinguished Service to Mathematics, and Beckenbach Book Prize.
The MAA is one of four partners in the Joint Policy Board for Mathematics (JPBM, http://www.jpbm.org/index.html), and participates in the Conference Board of the Mathematical Sciences (CBMS, http://www.cbmsweb.org/), an umbrella organization of sixteen professional societies.
A detailed history of the first fifty years of the MAA appears in May (1972). A report on activities prior to World War II appears in Bennet (1967) harvtxt error: no target: CITEREFBennet1967 (help). Further details of its history can be found in Case (1996). In addition numerous regional sections of the MAA have published accounts of their local history.
The MAA was established in 1915. But the roots of the Association can be traced to the 1894 founding of the American Mathematical Monthly by Benjamin Finkel, who wrote "Most of our existing journals deal almost exclusively with subjects beyond the reach of the average student or teacher of mathematics or at least with subjects with which they are familiar, and little, if any, space, is devoted to the solution of problems…No pains will be spared on the part of the Editors to make this the most interesting and most popular journal published in America."
The MAA has for a long time followed a strict policy of inclusiveness and non-discrimination.
In previous periods it was subject to the same problems of discrimination that were widespread across the United States. One notorious incident at a south-eastern sectional meeting in Nashville in 1951 has been documented[12] by the American mathematician and equal rights activist Lee Lorch, who in 2007
received the most prestigious award given by the MAA (the Yueh-Gin Gung and Dr. Charles Y. Hu Award for Distinguished Service to Mathematics).[13][14] The citation delivered at the 2007 MAA awards presentation, where Lorch received a standing ovation, recorded that:
The Association's first woman president was Dorothy Lewis Bernstein (1979–1980).[15]
The Carriage House that belonged to the residents at 1529 18th Street, N.W. dates to around 1900.  It is older than the 5-story townhouse where the MAA Headquarters is currently located, which was completed in 1903.  Charles Evans Hughes occupied the house while he was Secretary of State (1921–1925) and a Supreme Court Justice (1910–1916 and 1930–1941).
The Carriage House would have been used by the owners as a livery stable to house the family carriage, though little else is known about its history today.  There are huge doors that were once used as an entrance for horses and carriages.  Iron rings used to tie up horses can still be seen on an adjacent building.  The Carriage House would have perhaps also been used as living quarters for a coachman, as was typical for the time period.
The presidents of the MAA:[16]
When studying and formulating Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity, various mathematical structures and techniques are utilized. The main tools used in this geometrical theory of gravitation are tensor fields defined on a Lorentzian manifold representing spacetime. This article is a general description of the mathematics of general relativity.
Note: General relativity articles using tensors will use the abstract index notation.
The principle of general covariance was one of the central principles in the development of general relativity. It states that the laws of physics should take the same mathematical form in all reference frames. The term 'general covariance' was used in the early formulation of general relativity, but the principle is now often referred to as 'diffeomorphism covariance'. 
Diffeomorphism covariance is not the defining feature of general relativity,[1] and controversies remain regarding its present status in general relativity. However, the invariance property of physical laws implied in the principle, coupled with the fact that the theory is essentially geometrical in character (making use of non-Euclidean geometries), suggested that general relativity be formulated using the language of tensors. This will be discussed further below.
Most modern approaches to mathematical general relativity begin with the concept of a manifold. More precisely, the basic physical construct representing gravitation - a curved spacetime - is modelled by a four-dimensional, smooth, connected, Lorentzian manifold. Other physical descriptors are represented by various tensors, discussed below.
The rationale for choosing a manifold as the fundamental mathematical structure is to reflect desirable physical properties. For example, in the theory of manifolds, each point is contained in a (by no means unique) coordinate chart, and this chart can be thought of as representing the 'local spacetime' around the observer (represented by the point). The principle of local Lorentz covariance, which states that the laws of special relativity hold locally about each point of spacetime, lends further support to the choice of a manifold structure for representing spacetime, as locally around a point on a general manifold, the region 'looks like', or approximates very closely Minkowski space (flat spacetime).
The idea of coordinate charts as 'local observers who can perform measurements in their vicinity' also makes good physical sense, as this is how one actually collects physical data - locally. For cosmological problems, a coordinate chart may be quite large.
An important distinction in physics is the difference between local and global structures. Measurements in physics are performed in a relatively small region of spacetime and this is one reason for studying the local structure of spacetime in general relativity, whereas determining the global spacetime structure is important, especially in cosmological problems.
An important problem in general relativity is to tell when two spacetimes are 'the same', at least locally. This problem has its roots in manifold theory where determining if two Riemannian manifolds of the same dimension are locally isometric ('locally the same'). This latter problem has been solved and its adaptation for general relativity is called the Cartan–Karlhede algorithm.
One of the profound consequences of relativity theory was the abolition of privileged reference frames. The description of physical phenomena should not depend upon who does the measuring - one reference frame should be as good as any other. Special relativity demonstrated that no inertial reference frame was preferential to any other inertial reference frame, but preferred inertial reference frames over noninertial reference frames. General relativity eliminated preference for inertial reference frames by showing that there is no preferred reference frame (inertial or not) for describing nature.
Any observer can make measurements and the precise numerical quantities obtained only depend on the coordinate system used. This suggested a way of formulating relativity using 'invariant structures', those that are independent of the coordinate system (represented by the observer) used, yet still have an independent existence. The most suitable mathematical structure seemed to be a tensor. For example, when measuring the electric and magnetic fields produced by an accelerating charge, the values of the fields will depend on the coordinate system used, but the fields are regarded as having an independent existence, this independence represented by the electromagnetic tensor .
Mathematically, tensors are generalised linear operators - multilinear maps. As such, the ideas of linear algebra are employed to study tensors.
At each point 



p


{\displaystyle p}

 of a manifold, the tangent and cotangent spaces to the manifold at that point may be constructed. Vectors (sometimes referred to as contravariant vectors) are defined as elements of the tangent space and covectors (sometimes termed covariant vectors, but more commonly dual vectors or one-forms) are elements of the cotangent space.
At 



p


{\displaystyle p}

, these two vector spaces may be used to construct type 



(
r
,
s
)


{\displaystyle (r,s)}

 tensors, which are real-valued multilinear maps acting on the direct sum of 



r


{\displaystyle r}

 copies of the cotangent space with 



s


{\displaystyle s}

 copies of the tangent space. The set of all such multilinear maps forms a vector space, called the tensor product space of type 



(
r
,
s
)


{\displaystyle (r,s)}

 at 



p


{\displaystyle p}

 and denoted by 



(

T

p



)

s


r


M
.


{\displaystyle (T_{p})_{s}^{r}M.}

 If the tangent space is n-dimensional, it can be shown that 



dim
⁡
(

T

p



)

s


r


M
=

n

r
+
s


.


{\displaystyle \dim(T_{p})_{s}^{r}M=n^{r+s}.}


In the general relativity literature, it is conventional to use the component syntax for tensors.
A type 



(
r
,
s
)


{\displaystyle (r,s)}

 tensor may be written as




T
=



T


a

1


…

a

r








b

1



…


b

s







∂

∂

x


a

1







⊗
⋯
⊗


∂

∂

x


a

r







⊗
d

x


b

1




⊗
⋯
⊗
d

x


b

s






{\displaystyle T={T^{a_{1}\dots a_{r}}}_{{b_{1}}\dots {b_{s}}}{\frac {\partial }{\partial x^{a_{1}}}}\otimes \dots \otimes {\frac {\partial }{\partial x^{a_{r}}}}\otimes dx^{b_{1}}\otimes \dots \otimes dx^{b_{s}}}


where 





∂

∂

x


a

i









{\textstyle {\frac {\partial }{\partial x^{a_{i}}}}}

 is a basis for the i-th tangent space and 



d

x


b

j






{\displaystyle dx^{b_{j}}}

 a basis for the j-th cotangent space.
As spacetime is assumed to be four-dimensional, each index on a tensor can be one of four values. Hence, the total number of elements a tensor possesses equals 4R, where R is the count of the number of covariant 



(

b

i


)


{\displaystyle (b_{i})}

 and contravariant 



(

a

i


)


{\displaystyle (a_{i})}

 indices on the tensor, 



r
+
s


{\displaystyle r+s}

 (a number called the rank of the tensor).
Some physical quantities are represented by tensors not all of whose components are independent. Important examples of such tensors include symmetric and antisymmetric tensors. Antisymmetric tensors are commonly used to represent rotations (for example, the vorticity tensor).
Although a generic rank R tensor in 4 dimensions has 4R components, constraints on the tensor such as symmetry or antisymmetry serve to reduce the number of distinct components. For example, a symmetric rank two tensor 



T


{\displaystyle T}

 satisfies 




T

α
β


=

T

β
α




{\displaystyle T_{\alpha \beta }=T_{\beta \alpha }}

 and possesses 10 independent components, whereas an antisymmetric (skew-symmetric) rank two tensor 



P


{\displaystyle P}

 satisfies 




P

α
β


=
−

P

β
α




{\displaystyle P_{\alpha \beta }=-P_{\beta \alpha }}

 and has 6 independent components. For ranks greater than two, the symmetric or antisymmetric index pairs must be explicitly identified.
Antisymmetric tensors of rank 2 play important roles in relativity theory. The set of all such tensors - often called bivectors - forms a vector space of dimension 6, sometimes called bivector space.
The metric tensor is a central object in general relativity that describes the local geometry of spacetime (as a result of solving the Einstein field equations). Using the weak-field approximation, the metric tensor can also be thought of as representing the 'gravitational potential'. The metric tensor is often just called 'the metric'.
The metric is a symmetric tensor and is an important mathematical tool. As well as being used to raise and lower tensor indices, it also generates the connections which are used to construct the geodesic equations of motion and the Riemann curvature tensor.
A convenient means of expressing the metric tensor in combination with the incremental intervals of coordinate distance that it relates to is through the line element:




d

s

2


=

g

a
b



d

x

a



d

x

b




{\displaystyle ds^{2}=g_{ab}\,dx^{a}\,dx^{b}}


This way of expressing the metric was used by the pioneers of differential geometry. While some relativists consider the notation to be somewhat old-fashioned, many readily switch between this and the alternative notation:[1]




g
=

g

a
b



d

x

a


⊗
d

x

b




{\displaystyle g=g_{ab}\,dx^{a}\otimes dx^{b}}


The metric tensor is commonly written as a 4×4 matrix. This matrix is symmetric and thus has 10 independent components.
One of the central features of GR is the idea of invariance of physical laws. This invariance can be described in many ways, for example, in terms of local Lorentz covariance, the general principle of relativity, or diffeomorphism covariance.
A more explicit description can be given using tensors. The crucial feature of tensors used in this approach is the fact that (once a metric is given) the operation of contracting a tensor of rank R over all R indices gives a number - an invariant - that is independent of the coordinate chart one uses to perform the contraction. Physically, this means that if the invariant is calculated by any two observers, they will get the same number, thus suggesting that the invariant has some independent significance. Some important invariants in relativity include:
Other examples of invariants in relativity include the electromagnetic invariants, and various other curvature invariants, some of the latter finding application in the study of gravitational entropy and the Weyl curvature hypothesis.
The classification of tensors is a purely mathematical problem. In GR, however, certain tensors that have a physical interpretation can be classified with the different forms of the tensor usually corresponding to some physics. Examples of tensor classifications useful in general relativity include the Segre classification of the energy–momentum tensor and the Petrov classification of the Weyl tensor. There are various methods of classifying these tensors, some of which use tensor invariants.
Tensor fields on a manifold are maps which attach a tensor to each point of the manifold. This notion can be made more precise by introducing the idea of a fibre bundle, which in the present context means to collect together all the tensors at all points of the manifold, thus 'bundling' them all into one grand object called the tensor bundle. A tensor field is then defined as a map from the manifold to the tensor bundle, each point 



p


{\displaystyle p}

 being associated with a tensor at 



p


{\displaystyle p}

.
The notion of a tensor field is of major importance in GR. For example, the geometry around a star is described by a metric tensor at each point, so at each point of the spacetime the value of the metric should be given to solve for the paths of material particles. Another example is the values of the electric and magnetic fields (given by the electromagnetic field tensor) and the metric at each point around a charged black hole to determine the motion of a charged particle in such a field.
Vector fields are contravariant rank one tensor fields. Important vector fields in relativity include the four-velocity, 




U

a


=




x
˙




a




{\displaystyle U^{a}={\dot {x}}^{a}}

, which is the coordinate distance travelled per unit of proper time, the four-acceleration 




A

a


=




x
¨




a




{\displaystyle A^{a}={\ddot {x}}^{a}}

 and the four-current 




J

a




{\displaystyle J^{a}}

 describing the charge and current densities. Other physically important tensor fields in relativity include the following:
Although the word 'tensor' refers to an object at a point, it is common practice to refer to tensor fields on a spacetime (or a region of it) as just 'tensors'.
At each point of a spacetime on which a metric is defined, the metric can be reduced to the Minkowski form using Sylvester's law of inertia.
Before the advent of general relativity, changes in physical processes were generally described by partial derivatives, for example, in describing changes in electromagnetic fields (see Maxwell's equations). Even in special relativity, the partial derivative is still sufficient to describe such changes. However, in general relativity, it is found that derivatives which are also tensors must be used. The derivatives have some common features including that they are derivatives along integral curves of vector fields.
The problem in defining derivatives on manifolds that are not flat is that there is no natural way to compare vectors at different points. An extra structure on a general manifold is required to define derivatives. Below are described two important derivatives that can be defined by imposing an additional structure on the manifold in each case.
The curvature of a spacetime can be characterised by taking a vector at some point and parallel transporting it along a curve on the spacetime. An affine connection is a rule which describes how to legitimately move a vector along a curve on the manifold without changing its direction.
By definition, an affine connection is a bilinear map 



Γ
(
T
M
)
×
Γ
(
T
M
)
→
Γ
(
T
M
)


{\displaystyle \Gamma (TM)\times \Gamma (TM)\to \Gamma (TM)}

, where 



Γ
(
T
M
)


{\displaystyle \Gamma (TM)}

 is a space of all vector fields on the spacetime. This bilinear map can be described in terms of a set of connection coefficients (also known as Christoffel symbols) specifying what happens to components of basis vectors under infinitesimal parallel transport:





∇


e

i





e

j


=

Γ

j
i


k



e

k




{\displaystyle \nabla _{e_{i}}e_{j}=\Gamma _{ji}^{k}e_{k}}


Despite their appearance, the connection coefficients are not the components of a tensor.
Generally speaking, there are 




D

3




{\displaystyle D^{3}}

 independent connection coefficients at each point of spacetime. The connection is called symmetric or torsion-free, if 




Γ

j
i


k


=

Γ

i
j


k




{\displaystyle \Gamma _{ji}^{k}=\Gamma _{ij}^{k}}

. A symmetric connection has at most 






1
2




D

2


(
D
+
1
)


{\textstyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}D^{2}(D+1)}

 unique coefficients.
For any curve 



γ


{\displaystyle \gamma }

 and two points 



A
=
γ
(
0
)


{\displaystyle A=\gamma (0)}

 and 



B
=
γ
(
t
)


{\displaystyle B=\gamma (t)}

 on this curve, an affine connection gives rise to a map of vectors in the tangent space at 



A


{\displaystyle A}

 into vectors in the tangent space at 



B


{\displaystyle B}

:




X
(
t
)
=

Π

0
,
t
,
γ


X
(
0
)


{\displaystyle X(t)=\Pi _{0,t,\gamma }X(0)}


and 



X
(
t
)


{\displaystyle X(t)}

 can be computed component-wise by solving the differential equation






d

d
t




X

i


(
t
)
=

∇

C
(
t
)



X

i


(
t
)
=

Γ

j
k


i



X

j


(
t
)

C

k


(
t
)


{\displaystyle {\frac {d}{dt}}X^{i}(t)=\nabla _{C(t)}X^{i}(t)=\Gamma _{jk}^{i}X^{j}(t)C^{k}(t)}


where 




C

j


(
t
)


{\displaystyle C^{j}(t)}

 is the vector tangent to the curve at the point 



γ
(
t
)


{\displaystyle \gamma (t)}

.
An important affine connection in general relativity is the Levi-Civita connection, which is a symmetric connection obtained from parallel transporting a tangent vector along a curve whilst keeping the inner product of that vector constant along the curve. The resulting connection coefficients (Christoffel symbols) can be calculated directly from the metric. For this reason, this type of connection is often called a metric connection.
Let 



X


{\displaystyle X}

 be a point, 






A
→





{\displaystyle {\vec {A}}}

 a vector located at 



X


{\displaystyle X}

, and 






B
→





{\displaystyle {\vec {B}}}

 a vector field. The idea of differentiating 






B
→





{\displaystyle {\vec {B}}}

 at 



X


{\displaystyle X}

 along the direction of 






A
→





{\displaystyle {\vec {A}}}

 in a physically meaningful way can be made sense of by choosing an affine connection and a parameterized smooth curve 



γ
(
t
)


{\displaystyle \gamma (t)}

 such that 



X
=
γ
(
0
)


{\displaystyle X=\gamma (0)}

 and 






A
→



=


d

d
t



γ
(
0
)


{\textstyle {\vec {A}}={\frac {d}{dt}}\gamma (0)}

. The formula





∇



A
→







B
→



(
X
)
=

lim

ε
→
0




1
ε



[


Π

(
ε
,
0
,
γ
)





B
→



(
γ
[
ε
]
)
−



B
→



(
X
)

]



{\displaystyle \nabla _{\vec {A}}{\vec {B}}(X)=\lim _{\varepsilon \to 0}{\frac {1}{\varepsilon }}\left[\Pi _{(\varepsilon ,0,\gamma )}{\vec {B}}(\gamma [\varepsilon ])-{\vec {B}}(X)\right]}


for a covariant derivative of 






B
→





{\displaystyle {\vec {B}}}

 along 






A
→





{\displaystyle {\vec {A}}}

 associated with connection 



Π


{\displaystyle \Pi }

 turns out to give curve-independent results and can be used as a "physical definition" of a covariant derivative.
It can be expressed using connection coefficients:





∇



Y
→







X
→



=

X

a






;
b



Y

b




∂

∂

x

a





=
(

X

a






,
b


+

Γ

b
c


a



X

c


)

Y

b




∂

∂

x

a







{\displaystyle \nabla _{\vec {Y}}{\vec {X}}=X^{a}{}_{;b}Y^{b}{\frac {\partial }{\partial x^{a}}}=(X^{a}{}_{,b}+\Gamma _{bc}^{a}X^{c})Y^{b}{\frac {\partial }{\partial x^{a}}}}


The expression in brackets, called a covariant derivative of 



X


{\displaystyle X}

 (with respect to the connection) and denoted by 



∇



X
→





{\displaystyle \nabla {\vec {X}}}

, is more often used in calculations:




∇



X
→



=

X

a






;
b




∂

∂

x

a





⊗
d

x

b


=
(

X

a






,
b


+

Γ

b
c


a



X

c


)


∂

∂

x

a





⊗
d

x

b




{\displaystyle \nabla {\vec {X}}=X^{a}{}_{;b}{\frac {\partial }{\partial x^{a}}}\otimes dx^{b}=(X^{a}{}_{,b}+\Gamma _{bc}^{a}X^{c}){\frac {\partial }{\partial x^{a}}}\otimes dx^{b}}


A covariant derivative of 



X


{\displaystyle X}

 can thus be viewed as a differential operator acting on a vector field sending it to a type (1, 1) tensor (increasing the covariant index by 1) and can be generalised to act on type 



(
r
,
s
)


{\displaystyle (r,s)}

 tensor fields sending them to type 



(
r
,
s
+
1
)


{\displaystyle (r,s+1)}

 tensor fields. Notions of parallel transport can then be defined similarly as for the case of vector fields. By definition, a covariant derivative of a scalar field is equal to the regular derivative of the field.
In the literature, there are three common methods of denoting covariant differentiation:





D

a



T

d
…
e


b
…
c


=

∇

a



T

d
…
e


b
…
c


=

T

d
…
e
;
a


b
…
c




{\displaystyle D_{a}T_{d\dots e}^{b\dots c}=\nabla _{a}T_{d\dots e}^{b\dots c}=T_{d\dots e;a}^{b\dots c}}


Many standard properties of regular partial derivatives also apply to covariant derivatives:









∇

a


(

X

b


+

Y

b


)



=

∇

a



X

b


+

∇

a



Y

b







∇

a


(
c

X

b


)



=
c

∇

a



X

b





c

 a constant






∇

a


(

X

b



Y

c


)



=

Y

c


(

∇

a



X

b


)
+

X

b


(

∇

a



Y

c


)





∇

a


(
f
(
x
)

X

b


)



=
f

∇

a



X

b


+

X

b



∇

a


f
=
f

∇

a



X

b


+

X

b





∂
f


∂

x

a











{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\nabla _{a}(X^{b}+Y^{b})&=\nabla _{a}X^{b}+\nabla _{a}Y^{b}\\\nabla _{a}(cX^{b})&=c\nabla _{a}X^{b}&&c{\text{ a constant}}\\\nabla _{a}(X^{b}Y^{c})&=Y^{c}(\nabla _{a}X^{b})+X^{b}(\nabla _{a}Y^{c})\\\nabla _{a}(f(x)X^{b})&=f\nabla _{a}X^{b}+X^{b}\nabla _{a}f=f\nabla _{a}X^{b}+X^{b}{\partial f \over \partial x^{a}}\\\end{aligned}}}


In general relativity, one usually refers to "the" covariant derivative, which is the one associated with Levi-Civita affine connection. By definition, Levi-Civita connection preserves the metric under parallel transport, therefore, the covariant derivative gives zero when acting on a metric tensor (as well as its inverse). It means that we can take the (inverse) metric tensor in and out of the derivative and use it to raise and lower indices:





∇

a



T

b


=

∇

a


(

T

c



g

b
c


)
=

g

b
c



∇

a



T

c




{\displaystyle \nabla _{a}T^{b}=\nabla _{a}(T_{c}g^{bc})=g^{bc}\nabla _{a}T_{c}}


Another important tensorial derivative is the Lie derivative. Unlike the covariant derivative, the Lie derivative is independent of the metric, although in general relativity one usually uses an expression that seemingly depends on the metric through the affine connection. Whereas the covariant derivative required an affine connection to allow comparison between vectors at different points, the Lie derivative uses a congruence from a vector field to achieve the same purpose. The idea of Lie dragging a function along a congruence leads to a definition of the Lie derivative, where the dragged function is compared with the value of the original function at a given point. The Lie derivative can be defined for type 



(
r
,
s
)


{\displaystyle (r,s)}

 tensor fields and in this respect can be viewed as a map that sends a type 



(
r
,
s
)


{\displaystyle (r,s)}

 to a type 



(
r
,
s
)


{\displaystyle (r,s)}

 tensor.
The Lie derivative is usually denoted by 






L



X




{\displaystyle {\mathcal {L}}_{X}}

, where 



X


{\displaystyle X}

 is the vector field along whose congruence the Lie derivative is taken.
The Lie derivative of any tensor along a vector field can be expressed through the covariant derivatives of that tensor and vector field. The Lie derivative of a scalar is just the directional derivative:







L



X


ϕ
=

X

a



∇

a


ϕ
=

X

a





∂
ϕ


∂

x

a







{\displaystyle {\mathcal {L}}_{X}\phi =X^{a}\nabla _{a}\phi =X^{a}{\frac {\partial \phi }{\partial x^{a}}}}


Higher rank objects pick up additional terms when the Lie derivative is taken. For example, the Lie derivative of a type (0, 2) tensor is







L



X



T

a
b


=

X

c



∇

c



T

a
b


+
(

∇

a



X

c


)

T

c
b


+
(

∇

b



X

c


)

T

a
c


=

X

c



T

a
b
,
c


+

X

,
a


c



T

c
b


+

X

,
b


c



T

a
c




{\displaystyle {\mathcal {L}}_{X}T_{ab}=X^{c}\nabla _{c}T_{ab}+(\nabla _{a}X^{c})T_{cb}+(\nabla _{b}X^{c})T_{ac}=X^{c}T_{ab,c}+X_{,a}^{c}T_{cb}+X_{,b}^{c}T_{ac}}


More generally,











L



X





T


a

1


…

a

r









b

1


…

b

s




=

X

c


(

∇

c



T


a

1


…

a

r









b

1


…

b

s




)
−







(

∇

c



X


a

1




)

T

c
…

a

r









b

1


…

b

s




−
⋯
−
(

∇

c



X


a

r




)

T


a

1


…

a

r
−
1


c







b

1


…

b

s




+







(

∇


b

1





X

c


)

T


a

1


…

a

r








c
…

b

s




+
⋯
+
(

∇


b

s





X

c


)

T


a

1


…

a

r









b

1


…

b

s
−
1


c








{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\mathcal {L}}_{X}&T^{a_{1}\dots a_{r}}{}_{b_{1}\dots b_{s}}=X^{c}(\nabla _{c}T^{a_{1}\dots a_{r}}{}_{b_{1}\ldots b_{s}})-\\&\quad (\nabla _{c}X^{a_{1}})T^{c\ldots a_{r}}{}_{b_{1}\ldots b_{s}}-\cdots -(\nabla _{c}X^{a_{r}})T^{a_{1}\ldots a_{r-1}c}{}_{b_{1}\dots b_{s}}+\\&\quad (\nabla _{b_{1}}X^{c})T^{a_{1}\dots a_{r}}{}_{c\dots b_{s}}+\cdots +(\nabla _{b_{s}}X^{c})T^{a_{1}\dots a_{r}}{}_{b_{1}\dots b_{s-1}c}\end{aligned}}}


In fact in the above expression, one can replace the covariant derivative 




∇

a




{\displaystyle \nabla _{a}}

 with any torsion free connection 







∇
~




a




{\displaystyle {\tilde {\nabla }}_{a}}

 or locally, with the coordinate dependent derivative 




∂

a




{\displaystyle \partial _{a}}

, showing that the Lie derivative is independent of the metric. The covariant derivative is convenient however because it commutes with raising and lowering indices.
One of the main uses of the Lie derivative in general relativity is in the study of spacetime symmetries where tensors or other geometrical objects are preserved. In particular, Killing symmetry (symmetry of the metric tensor under Lie dragging) occurs very often in the study of spacetimes. Using the formula above, we can write down the condition that must be satisfied for a vector field to generate a Killing symmetry:











L



X



g

a
b


=
0



⟺

∇

a



X

b


+

∇

b



X

a


=
0






⟺

X

c



g

a
b
,
c


+

X

,
a


c



g

b
c


+

X

,
b


c



g

a
c


=
0






{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\mathcal {L}}_{X}g_{ab}=0&\Longleftrightarrow \nabla _{a}X_{b}+\nabla _{b}X_{a}=0\\&\Longleftrightarrow X^{c}g_{ab,c}+X_{,a}^{c}g_{bc}+X_{,b}^{c}g_{ac}=0\end{aligned}}}


A crucial feature of general relativity is the concept of a curved manifold. A useful way of measuring the curvature of a manifold is with an object called the Riemann (curvature) tensor.
This tensor measures curvature by use of an affine connection by considering the effect of parallel transporting a vector between two points along two curves. The discrepancy between the results of these two parallel transport routes is essentially quantified by the Riemann tensor.
This property of the Riemann tensor can be used to describe how initially parallel geodesics diverge. This is expressed by the equation of geodesic deviation and means that the tidal forces experienced in a gravitational field are a result of the curvature of spacetime.
Using the above procedure, the Riemann tensor is defined as a type (1, 3) tensor and when fully written out explicitly contains the Christoffel symbols and their first partial derivatives. The Riemann tensor has 20 independent components. The vanishing of all these components over a region indicates that the spacetime is flat in that region. From the viewpoint of geodesic deviation, this means that initially parallel geodesics in that region of spacetime will stay parallel.
The Riemann tensor has a number of properties sometimes referred to as the symmetries of the Riemann tensor. Of particular relevance to general relativity are the algebraic and differential Bianchi identities.
The connection and curvature of any Riemannian manifold are closely related, the theory of holonomy groups, which are formed by taking linear maps defined by parallel transport around curves on the manifold, providing a description of this relationship.
What the Riemann Tensor allows us to do is tell, mathematically, whether a space is flat or, if curved, how much curvature takes place in any given region. In order to derive the Riemann curvature tensor we must first recall the definition of the covariant derivative of a tensor with one and two indices;
For the formation of the Riemann tensor, the covariant derivative is taken twice with the respect to a tensor of rank one. The equation is set up as follows;









∇

σ
;
μ



V

ν





=

∇

σ


[

∇

μ



V

ν


]






=

∂

σ


[

∇

μ



V

ν


]
−

Γ

ρ






μ
σ


[

∇

ρ



V

ν


]
−

Γ

ρ






ν
σ


[

∇

μ



V

ρ


]






=

∂

σ


[

∂

μ



V

ν


−

Γ

α






ν
μ



V

α


]
−

Γ

ρ






μ
σ


[

∂

ρ



V

ν


−

Γ

α






ν
ρ



V

α


]
−

Γ

ρ






ν
σ


[

∂

μ



V

ρ


−

Γ

α






ρ
μ



V

α


]






=

∂

σ



∂

μ



V

ν


−

∂

σ


(

Γ

α






ν
μ



V

α


)
−

Γ

ρ






μ
σ



∂

ρ



V

ν


+

Γ

ρ






μ
σ



Γ

α






ν
ρ



V

α


−

Γ

ρ






ν
σ



∂

μ



V

ρ


+

Γ

ρ






ν
σ



Γ

α






ρ
μ



V

α








=

∂

σ



∂

μ



V

ν


−

∂

σ


(

Γ

α






ν
μ


)

V

α


−

Γ

α






ν
μ



∂

σ


(

V

α


)
−

Γ

ρ






μ
σ



∂

ρ



V

ν


+

Γ

ρ






μ
σ



Γ

α






ν
ρ



V

α


−

Γ

ρ






ν
σ



∂

μ



V

ρ


+

Γ

ρ






ν
σ



Γ

α






ρ
μ



V

α








{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\nabla _{\sigma ;\mu }V_{\nu }&=\nabla _{\sigma }[\nabla _{\mu }V_{\nu }]\\&=\partial _{\sigma }[\nabla _{\mu }V_{\nu }]-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\mu \sigma }[\nabla _{\rho }V_{\nu }]-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }[\nabla _{\mu }V_{\rho }]\\&=\partial _{\sigma }[\partial _{\mu }V_{\nu }-\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \mu }V_{\alpha }]-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\mu \sigma }[\partial _{\rho }V_{\nu }-\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \rho }V_{\alpha }]-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }[\partial _{\mu }V_{\rho }-\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \mu }V_{\alpha }]\\&=\partial _{\sigma }\partial _{\mu }V_{\nu }-\partial _{\sigma }(\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \mu }V_{\alpha })-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\mu \sigma }\partial _{\rho }V_{\nu }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\mu \sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \rho }V_{\alpha }-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }\partial _{\mu }V_{\rho }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \mu }V_{\alpha }\\&=\partial _{\sigma }\partial _{\mu }V_{\nu }-\partial _{\sigma }(\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \mu })V_{\alpha }-\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \mu }\partial _{\sigma }(V_{\alpha })-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\mu \sigma }\partial _{\rho }V_{\nu }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\mu \sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \rho }V_{\alpha }-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }\partial _{\mu }V_{\rho }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \mu }V_{\alpha }\end{aligned}}}


Similarly we have:





∇

μ
;
σ



V

ν


=

∂

μ



∂

σ



V

ν


−

∂

μ


(

Γ

α






ν
σ


)

V

α


−

Γ

α






ν
σ



∂

μ


(

V

α


)
−

Γ

ρ






σ
μ



∂

ρ



V

ν


+

Γ

ρ






σ
μ



Γ

α






ν
ρ



V

α


−

Γ

ρ






ν
μ



∂

σ



V

ρ


+

Γ

ρ






ν
μ



Γ

α






ρ
σ



V

α




{\displaystyle \nabla _{\mu ;\sigma }V_{\nu }=\partial _{\mu }\partial _{\sigma }V_{\nu }-\partial _{\mu }(\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \sigma })V_{\alpha }-\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \sigma }\partial _{\mu }(V_{\alpha })-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\sigma \mu }\partial _{\rho }V_{\nu }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\sigma \mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \rho }V_{\alpha }-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \mu }\partial _{\sigma }V_{\rho }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \sigma }V_{\alpha }}


Subtracting the two equations, swapping dummy indices and using the symmetry of Christoffel symbols leaves:





∇

σ
;
μ



V

ν


−

∇

μ
;
σ



V

ν


=
(

∂

μ



Γ

α






ν
σ


−

∂

σ



Γ

α






ν
μ


+

Γ

ρ






ν
σ



Γ

α






ρ
μ


−

Γ

ρ






ν
μ



Γ

α






ρ
σ


)

V

α




{\displaystyle \nabla _{\sigma ;\mu }V_{\nu }-\nabla _{\mu ;\sigma }V_{\nu }=(\partial _{\mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \sigma }-\partial _{\sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \mu }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \mu }-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \sigma })V_{\alpha }}


or





R

ν
μ
σ


α



V

α


=
(

∂

μ



Γ

α






ν
σ


b
−

∂

σ



Γ

α






ν
μ


+

Γ

ρ






ν
σ



Γ

α






ρ
μ


−

Γ

ρ






ν
μ



Γ

α






ρ
σ


)

V

α




{\displaystyle R_{\nu \mu \sigma }^{\alpha }V_{\alpha }=(\partial _{\mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \sigma }b-\partial _{\sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \mu }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \mu }-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \sigma })V_{\alpha }}


Finally the Riemann curvature tensor is written as





R

ν
μ
σ


α


=

∂

μ



Γ

α






ν
σ


−

∂

σ



Γ

α






ν
μ


+

Γ

ρ






ν
σ



Γ

α






ρ
μ


−

Γ

ρ






ν
μ



Γ

α






ρ
σ




{\displaystyle R_{\nu \mu \sigma }^{\alpha }=\partial _{\mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \sigma }-\partial _{\sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\nu \mu }+\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \sigma }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \mu }-\Gamma ^{\rho }{}_{\nu \mu }\Gamma ^{\alpha }{}_{\rho \sigma }}


You can contract indices to make the tensor covariant simply by multiplying by the metric, which will be useful when working with Einstein's field equations,





g

α
λ



R

ν
μ
σ


λ


=

R

α
ν
μ
σ




{\displaystyle g_{\alpha \lambda }R_{\nu \mu \sigma }^{\lambda }=R_{\alpha \nu \mu \sigma }}


and by further decomposition,





g

α
μ



R

α
ν
μ
σ


=

R

ν
σ




{\displaystyle g^{\alpha \mu }R_{\alpha \nu \mu \sigma }=R_{\nu \sigma }}


This tensor is called the Ricci tensor which can also be derived by setting 



α


{\displaystyle \alpha }

 and 



μ


{\displaystyle \mu }

 in the Riemann tensor to the same indice and summing over them. Then the curvature scalar can be found by going one step further,





g

ν
σ



R

ν
σ


=
R


{\displaystyle g^{\nu \sigma }R_{\nu \sigma }=R}


So now we have 3 different objects,
all of which are useful in calculating solutions to Einstein's field equations.
The sources of any gravitational field (matter and energy) is represented in relativity by a type (0, 2) symmetric tensor called the energy–momentum tensor. It is closely related to the Ricci tensor. Being a second rank tensor in four dimensions, the energy–momentum tensor may be viewed as a 4 by 4 matrix. The various admissible matrix types, called Jordan forms cannot all occur, as the energy conditions that the energy–momentum tensor is forced to satisfy rule out certain forms.
In GR, there is a local law for the conservation of energy–momentum. It can be succinctly expressed by the tensor equation: 




T

a
b






;
b


=
0


{\displaystyle T^{ab}{}_{;b}=0}


The corresponding statement of local energy conservation in special relativity is: 




T

a
b






,
b


=
0


{\displaystyle T^{ab}{}_{,b}=0}


This illustrates the rule of thumb that 'partial derivatives go to covariant derivatives'.
The Einstein field equations (EFE) are the core of general relativity theory. The EFE describe how mass and energy (as represented in the stress–energy tensor) are related to the curvature of space-time (as represented in the Einstein tensor). In abstract index notation, the EFE reads as follows:





G

a
b


+
Λ

g

a
b


=



8
π
G


c

4





T

a
b




{\displaystyle G_{ab}+\Lambda g_{ab}={\frac {8\pi G}{c^{4}}}T_{ab}}


where 




G

a
b




{\displaystyle G_{ab}}

 is the Einstein tensor, 



Λ


{\displaystyle \Lambda }

 is the cosmological constant, 




g

a
b




{\displaystyle g_{ab}}

 is the metric tensor, 



c


{\displaystyle c}

 is the speed of light in a vacuum and 



G


{\displaystyle G}

 is the gravitational constant, which comes from Newton's law of universal gravitation.
The solutions of the EFE are metric tensors. The EFE, being non-linear differential equations for the metric, are often difficult to solve. There are a number of strategies used to solve them. For example, one strategy is to start with an ansatz (or an educated guess) of the final metric, and refine it until it is specific enough to support a coordinate system but still general enough to yield a set of simultaneous differential equations with unknowns that can be solved for. Metric tensors resulting from cases where the resultant differential equations can be solved exactly for a physically reasonable distribution of energy–momentum are called exact solutions. Examples of important exact solutions include the Schwarzschild solution and the Friedman-Lemaître-Robertson–Walker solution.
The EIH approximation plus other references (e.g. Geroch and Jang, 1975 - 'Motion of a body in general relativity', JMP, Vol. 16 Issue 1).
Once the EFE are solved to obtain a metric, it remains to determine the motion of inertial objects in the spacetime. In general relativity, it is assumed that inertial motion occurs along timelike and null geodesics of spacetime as parameterized by proper time. Geodesics are curves that parallel transport their own tangent vector 






U
→





{\displaystyle {\vec {U}}}

; i.e., 




∇



U
→







U
→



=
0


{\displaystyle \nabla _{\vec {U}}{\vec {U}}=0}

. This condition, the geodesic equation, can be written in terms of a coordinate system 




x

a




{\displaystyle x^{a}}

 with the tangent vector 




U

a


=



d

x

a




d
τ





{\displaystyle U^{a}={\frac {dx^{a}}{d\tau }}}

:








x
¨




a


+



Γ

a




b
c







x
˙




b







x
˙




c


=
0


{\displaystyle {\ddot {x}}^{a}+{\Gamma ^{a}}_{bc}\,{\dot {x}}^{b}\,{\dot {x}}^{c}=0}


where 







˙





{\displaystyle {\dot {}}}

 denotes the derivative by proper time, 



d

/

d
τ


{\displaystyle d/d\tau }

, with τ parametrising proper time along the curve and making manifest the presence of the Christoffel symbols.
A principal feature of general relativity is to determine the paths of particles and radiation in gravitational fields. This is accomplished by solving the geodesic equations.
The EFE relate the total matter (energy) distribution to the curvature of spacetime. Their nonlinearity leads to a problem in determining the precise motion of matter in the resultant spacetime. For example, in a system composed of one planet orbiting a star, the motion of the planet is determined by solving the field equations with the energy–momentum tensor the sum of that for the planet and the star. The gravitational field of the planet affects the total spacetime geometry and hence the motion of objects. It is therefore reasonable to suppose that the field equations can be used to derive the geodesic equations.
When the energy–momentum tensor for a system is that of dust, it may be shown by using the local conservation law for the energy–momentum tensor that the geodesic equations are satisfied exactly.
The issue of deriving the equations of motion or the field equations in any physical theory is considered by many researchers to be appealing. A fairly universal way of performing these derivations is by using the techniques of variational calculus, the main objects used in this being Lagrangians.
Many consider this approach to be an elegant way of constructing a theory, others as merely a formal way of expressing a theory (usually, the Lagrangian construction is performed after the theory has been developed).
Having outlined the basic mathematical structures used in formulating the theory, some important mathematical techniques that are employed in investigating spacetimes will now be discussed.
A frame field is an orthonormal set of 4 vector fields (1 timelike, 3 spacelike) defined on a spacetime. Each frame field can be thought of as representing an observer in the spacetime moving along the integral curves of the timelike vector field. Every tensor quantity can be expressed in terms of a frame field, in particular, the metric tensor takes on a particularly convenient form. When allied with coframe fields, frame fields provide a powerful tool for analysing spacetimes and physically interpreting the mathematical results.
Some modern techniques in analysing spacetimes rely heavily on using spacetime symmetries, which are infinitesimally generated by vector fields (usually defined locally) on a spacetime that preserve some feature of the spacetime. The most common type of such symmetry vector fields include Killing vector fields (which preserve the metric structure) and their generalisations called generalised Killing vector fields. Symmetry vector fields find extensive application in the study of exact solutions in general relativity and the set of all such vector fields usually forms a finite-dimensional Lie algebra.
The Cauchy problem (sometimes called the initial value problem) is the attempt at finding a solution to a differential equation given initial conditions. In the context of general relativity, it means the problem of finding solutions to Einstein's field equations - a system of hyperbolic partial differential equations - given some initial data on a hypersurface. Studying the Cauchy problem allows one to formulate the concept of causality in general relativity, as well as 'parametrising' solutions of the field equations. Ideally, one desires global solutions, but usually local solutions are the best that can be hoped for. Typically, solving this initial value problem requires selection of particular coordinate conditions.
Spinors find several important applications in relativity. Their use as a method of analysing spacetimes using tetrads, in particular, in the Newman–Penrose formalism is important.
Another appealing feature of spinors in general relativity is the condensed way in which some tensor equations may be written using the spinor formalism. For example, in classifying the Weyl tensor, determining the various Petrov types becomes much easier when compared with the tensorial counterpart.
Regge calculus is a formalism which chops up a Lorentzian manifold into discrete 'chunks' (four-dimensional simplicial blocks) and the block edge lengths are taken as the basic variables. A discrete version of the Einstein–Hilbert action is obtained by considering so-called deficit angles of these blocks, a zero deficit angle corresponding to no curvature. This novel idea finds application in approximation methods in numerical relativity and quantum gravity, the latter using a generalisation of Regge calculus.
In general relativity, it was noted that, under fairly generic conditions, gravitational collapse will inevitably result in a so-called singularity. A singularity is a point where the solutions to the equations become infinite, indicating that the theory has been probed at inappropriate ranges.
Numerical relativity is the sub-field of general relativity which seeks to solve Einstein's equations through the use of numerical methods. Finite difference, finite element and pseudo-spectral methods are used to approximate the solution to the partial differential equations which arise. Novel techniques developed by numerical relativity include the excision method and the puncture method for dealing with the singularities arising in black hole spacetimes. Common research topics include black holes and neutron stars.
The nonlinearity of the Einstein field equations often leads one to consider approximation methods in solving them. For example, an important approach is to linearise the field equations. Techniques from perturbation theory find ample application in such areas.
[1] The defining feature (central physical idea) of general relativity is that matter and energy cause the surrounding spacetime geometry to be curved.
From kindergarten through high school, mathematics education in public schools in the United States has historically varied widely from state to state, and often even varies considerably within individual states. With the adoption of the Common Core Standards by 45 states, mathematics content across the country is moving into closer agreement for each grade level. Furthermore, the SAT, a standardized university entrance exam, has been reformed to better reflect the contents of the Common Core.[1]
Each state sets its own curricular standards and details are usually set by each local school district. Although there are no federal standards, since 2015 most states have based their curricula on the Common Core State Standards in mathematics. The National Council of Teachers of Mathematics published educational recommendations in mathematics education in 1991 and 2000 which have been highly influential, describing mathematical knowledge, skills and pedagogical emphases from kindergarten through high school. The 2006 NCTM Curriculum Focal Points have also been influential for its recommendations of the most important mathematical topics for each grade level through grade 8. 
In the United States, mathematics curriculum in elementary and middle school is integrated, while in high school it traditionally has been separated by topic, like Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II, each topic usually lasting for the whole school year. However, from 2013-14 onward, some school districts and states have switched to an integrated curriculum.[2][3]
Pre-algebra can be taken in middle school. Students learn about real numbers and some more arithmetic (prime numbers, prime factorization, and the fundamental theorem of arithmetic), the rudiments of algebra and geometry (areas of plane figures, the Pythagorean theorem, and the distance formula), and introductory trigonometry (definitions of the trigonometric functions).
Algebra I is the first course students take in algebra. Historically, this class has been a high school level course that is often offered as early as the seventh grade but more traditionally in eighth or ninth grades, after the student has taken Pre-algebra. The course is also offered in community colleges as a basic skills or remedial course. Students learn about real numbers and the order of operations (PEMDAS), functions, linear equations, graphs, polynomials, the factor theorem, radicals, and quadratic equations (factoring, completing the square, and the quadratic formula), and power functions.
Geometry, usually taken ninth or tenth grade, introduces students to the concept of rigor in mathematics by way of some basic concepts in mainly Euclidean geometry. Students learn about parallel lines, triangles (congruence and similarity), circles (secants, chords, central angles, and inscribed angles), the Pythagorean theorem, elementary trigonometry (angles of elevation and depression, the law of sines), basic analytic geometry (equations of lines, point-slope and slope-intercept forms, perpendicular lines, and vectors), and geometric probability. Geometry  Depending on the curriculum and instructor, students may receive orientation towards calculus, for instance with the introduction of the method of exhaustion and Cavalieri's principle.
Algebra II has Algebra I as a prerequisite and is traditionally a high-school level course. Course contents include inequalities, quadratic equations, power functions, exponential functions, logarithms, systems of linear equations, matrices (including matrix multiplication, 



2
×
2


{\displaystyle 2\times 2}

 matrix determinants, Cramer's rule, and the inverse of a matrix), the radian measure, graphs of trigonometric functions, trigonometric identities (Pythagorean identities, the sum-and-difference, double-angle, and half-angle formulas, the laws of sines and cosines), conic sections, among other topics.
The Common Core mathematical standards recognize both the sequential as well as the integrated approach to teaching high-school mathematics, which resulted in increased adoption of integrated math programs for high school. Accordingly, the organizations providing post-secondary education updated their enrollment requirements. For example, University of California requires three years of "college-preparatory mathematics that include the topics covered in elementary and advanced algebra and two- and three-dimensional geometry"[4] to be admitted. After California Department of Education adopted Common Core, the University of California clarified that "approved integrated math courses may be used to fulfill part or all"[4] of this admission requirement.
Pre-calculus follows from the above, and is usually taken by college-bound students. Pre-calculus combines algebra, analytic geometry, trigonometry and analytic trigonometry. Topics in algebra include the binomial theorem, complex numbers, the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra, root extraction, polynomial long division, partial fraction decomposition, and matrix operations. In the chapters on analytic geometry, students are introduced to polar coordinates and deepen their knowledge of conic sections.  In the components on (analytic) trigonometry, students learn the graphs of trigonometric functions, trigonometric functions on the unit circle, the dot product, the projection of one vector onto another, and how to resolve vectors. If time and aptitude permit, students might learn Heron's formula and how to calculate the determinant of a 



3
×
3


{\displaystyle 3\times 3}

 matrix via the rule of Sarrus and the vector cross product. Students are introduced to the use of a graphing calculator to help them visualize the plots of equations and to supplement the traditional techniques for finding the roots of a polynomial, such as the rational root theorem and the Descartes rule of signs. Pre-calculus ends with an introduction to limits of a function. Some instructors might give lectures on mathematical induction and combinatorics in this course.[5]
Depending on school district, several courses may be compacted and combined within one school year, either studied sequentially or simultaneously. Without such acceleration it may be not possible to take more advanced classes like calculus in high school.
College algebra is offered at many community colleges (as a remedial course). It should not be confused with abstract algebra and linear algebra, taken by students who major in mathematics and allied fields (such as computer science) in four-year colleges and universities.
Calculus is usually taken by high-school seniors or university freshmen, but can occasionally be taken as early as tenth grade. A successfully completed college-level calculus course like one offered via Advanced Placement program (AP Calculus AB and AP Calculus BC) is a transfer-level course—that is, it can be accepted by a college as a credit towards graduation requirements. In this class, students learn about limits and continuity (the intermediate and mean value theorems), differentiation and its applications (implicit differentiation, logarithmic differentiation, related rates, optimization, Newton's method, L'Hôpital's rules), integration and the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, techniques of integration (u-substitution, by parts, trigonometric and hyperbolic substitution), further applications of integration (calculating accumulated change, various problems in the sciences and engineering, separable ordinary differential equations, arc length of a curve, areas between curves, volumes and surface areas of solids of revolutions), numerical integration (the midpoint rule, the trapezoid rule, Simpson's rule), infinite sequences and series and their convergence (the nth-term, comparison, ratio, root, integral,  p-series, and alternating series tests), Taylor's theorem (with the Lagrange remainder), Newton's binomial series, Euler's complex identity, polar representation of complex numbers, parametric equations, and curves in polar coordinates.[6][7]
Depending on the course and instructor, special topics in introductory calculus might include the classical differential geometry of curves (arc-length parametrization, curvature, torsion, and the Frenet–Serret formulas), the epsilon-delta definition of the limit, first-order linear ordinary differential equations, Bernoulli differential equations. Some American high schools today also offer multivariable calculus[8] (partial differentiation, the multivariable chain rule and Clairault's theorem; constrained optimization and Lagrange multipliers; multidimensional integration, Fubini's theorem, change of variables, and Jacobian determinants, gradients, directional derivatives, divergence, curl, the fundamental theorem of gradients, Green's theorem, Stokes' theorem, and Gauss's theorem).[9]
Other optional mathematics courses may be offered, such as statistics (including AP Statistics) or business math. Students learn to use graphical and numerical techniques to analyze distributions of data (including univariate, bivariate, and categorical data), the various methods of data collection and the sorts of conclusions one can draw therefrom, probability, and statistical inference (point estimation, confidence intervals, and significance tests).
Under the 'New Math' initiative, created after the successful launch of the Soviet satellite Sputnik in 1957, conceptual abstraction gained the central role in mathematics education.[10] It was part of an international movement influenced by the Nicholas Bourbaki school in France, attempting to bring the mathematics taught in schools closer to what research mathematicians actually use.[11] Students received lessons in set theory, which is what mathematicians actually use to construct the set of real numbers, normally taught to advanced undergraduates in real analysis (see Dedekind cuts and Cauchy sequences). Arithmetic with bases other than ten was also taught (see binary arithmetic and modular arithmetic). However, this educational initiative faced strong opposition, not just from teachers, many of whom struggled to understand the new material, let alone teach it, but also parents, who had problems helping their children with homework.[10] It was criticized by experts, too. In a 1965 essay, physicist Richard Feynman argued, "first there must be freedom of thought; second, we do not want to teach just words; and third, subjects should not be introduced without explaining the purpose or reason, or without giving any way in which the material could be really used to discover something interesting. I don't think it is worthwhile teaching such material."[12] In his 1973 book, Why Johnny Can't Add: the Failure of the New Math, mathematician and historian of mathematics Morris Kline observed that it was "practically impossible" to learn new mathematical creations without first understanding the old ones, and that "abstraction is not the first stage, but the last stage, in a mathematical development."[13] Kline criticized the authors of the 'New Math' textbooks, not for their mathematical faculty, but rather their narrow approach to mathematics, and their limited understanding of pedagogy and educational psychology.[14] Mathematician George F. Simmons wrote in the algebra section of his book Precalculus Mathematics in a Nutshell (1981) that the New Math produced students who had "heard of the commutative law, but did not know the multiplication table."[15]
In the 20th century, reforms to mathematics education were proposed, based on ideas originating from the 1980s, when research began to support an emphasis on problem solving, mathematical reasoning, conceptual understanding and student-centered learning and a de-emphasis on rote memorization. About the same time as the  development of a number of controversial standards across reading, science and history, in 1989 the National Council for Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) produced the Curriculum and Evaluation Standards for School Mathematics. Widespread adoption of the new standards notwithstanding, pedagogical practice changed little in the United States during the 1990s.[16] In fact, mathematics education became a hotly debated subject, and after initial adoption of standards-based curricula, some schools and districts supplemented or replaced standards-based curricula in the late 1990s and early 2000s. 
In standards-based education reform all students, not only the college-bound, must take substantive mathematics. In some large school districts, this came to mean requiring some algebra of all students by ninth grade, compared to the tradition of tracking only the college-bound and the most advanced junior high school students to take algebra. A challenge with implementing the Curriculum and Evaluation Standards was that no curricular materials at the time were designed to meet the intent of the Standards. In the 1990s, the National Science Foundation funded the development of curricula such as the Core-Plus Mathematics Project. In the late 1990s and early 2000s the so-called math wars erupted in communities that were opposed to some of the more radical changes to mathematics instruction. Some students complained that their new math courses placed them into remedial math in college.[17] However, data provided by the University of Michigan registrar at this same time indicate that in collegiate mathematics courses at the University of Michigan, graduates of Core-Plus did as well as or better than graduates of a traditional mathematics curriculum, and students taking traditional courses were also placed in remedial mathematics courses.[18]
In 2001 and 2009, NCTM released the Principles and Standards for School Mathematics (PSSM) and the Curriculum Focal Points which expanded on the work of the previous standards documents. Particularly, the PSSM reiterated the 1989 standards, but in a more balanced way, while the Focal Points suggested three areas of emphasis for each grade level. Refuting reports and editorials[19] that it was repudiating the earlier standards, the NCTM claimed that the Focal Points were largely re-emphasizing the need for instruction that builds skills and deepens student mathematical understanding.These documents repeated the criticism that American mathematics curricula are a "mile wide and an inch deep" in comparison to the mathematics of most other nations, a finding from the Second and Third International Mathematics and Science Studies.
Proponents of teaching the integrated curriculum believe that students would better understanding the connections between the different branches of mathematics. On the other hands, critics—including parents and teachers—prefer the traditional American approach both because of their familiarity with it and because of their concern that certain key topics might be omitted, leaving the student ill-prepared for college.[2]
Beginning in 2011, most states have adopted the Common Core Standards for mathematics, which were partially based on NCTM's previous work. Controversy still continues as critics point out that Common Core standards do not fully prepare students for college and as some parents continue to complain that they do not understand the mathematics their children are learning. Indeed, even though they may have expressed an interest in pursuing science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) in high school, many university students find themselves ill-equipped for a rigorous STEM education in part because of their inadequate preparation in mathematics.[20][21] Meanwhile, Chinese, Indian, and Singaporean students are exposed to high-level mathematics and science at a young age.[20] About half of STEM students dropped out of their programs between 2003 and 2009.[21] On top of that, many mathematics schoolteachers were not as well-versed in their subjects as they should be, and might well be uncomfortable with mathematics themselves.[21][22] An emphasis on speed and rote memorization gives as many as one third of students aged five and over mathematical anxiety.[23]
Another issue with mathematics education has been integration with science education.  This is difficult for the public schools to do because science and math are taught independently.  The value of the integration is that science can provide authentic contexts for the math concepts being taught and further, if mathematics is taught in synchrony with science, then the students benefit from this correlation.[24]
Growing numbers of parents have opted to send their children to enrichment and accelerated learning after-school or summer programs in mathematics, leading to friction with school officials who are concerned that their primary beneficiaries are affluent white and Asian families, prompting parents to pick private institutions or math circles. Some public schools serving low-income neighborhoods even denied the existence of mathematically gifted students. But by the mid-2010s, some public schools have begun offering enrichment programs to their students.[21]
The Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) conducted the 2015 assessment test which is held every three years for 15-year old students worldwide.[25] In 2012, the United States earned average scores in science and reading. It performed better than other progressive nations in mathematics ranking number 36 out of 65 other countries. The PISA assessment examined the students’ understanding of mathematics as well as their approach to this subject and responses. These indicated three approaches to learning. Some of the students depended mainly on memorization. Others were more reflective on newer concepts. Another group concentrated more on principles that they have not yet studied. The U.S. had a high proportion of memorizers compared to other developed countries.[23] During the latest testing, the United States failed to make it to the top 10 in all categories including mathematics. More than 540,000 teens from 72 countries took the exam. Their average score in mathematics declined 11 points.[26]
Results from the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) test show that scores in mathematics have been leveling off in the 2010s, but with a growing gap between the top and bottom students. The COVID-19 pandemic, which forced schools to shut down and lessons to be given online, further widened the divide, as the best students lost fewer points compared to the worst and therefore could catch up more quickly.[27]
There was considerable debate whether or not calculus should be included when the Advanced Placement (AP) Mathematics course was first proposed in the early 1950s. AP Mathematics was eventually developed into AP Calculus thanks to physicists and engineers, who convinced mathematicians of the need to expose students in these subjects to calculus early on in their collegiate programs.[8]
In the early 21st century, there has been demand for the creation of AP Multivariable Calculus and indeed, a number of American high schools have begun to offer this class, giving colleges trouble in placing incoming students.[8]
As of 2021, AP Precalculus was under development by the College Board, though there were concerns that universities and colleges would not grant credit for such a course, given that students had previously been expected to know this material prior to matriculation.[8]
Mathematics education research and practitioner conferences include: NCTM's Regional Conference and Exposition and Annual Meeting and Exposition; The Psychology of Mathematics Education's North American Chapter annual conference; and numerous smaller regional conferences.


Mathematics and architecture are related, since, as with other arts, architects use mathematics for several reasons. Apart from the mathematics needed when engineering buildings, architects use geometry: to define the spatial form of a building; from the Pythagoreans of the sixth century BC onwards, to create forms considered harmonious, and thus to lay out buildings and their surroundings according to mathematical, aesthetic and sometimes religious principles; to decorate buildings with mathematical objects such as tessellations; and to meet environmental goals, such as to minimise wind speeds around the bases of tall buildings.
In ancient Egypt, ancient Greece, India, and the Islamic world, buildings including pyramids, temples, mosques, palaces and mausoleums were laid out with specific proportions for religious reasons. In Islamic architecture, geometric shapes and geometric tiling patterns are used to decorate buildings, both inside and outside. Some Hindu temples have a fractal-like structure where parts resemble the whole, conveying a message about the infinite in Hindu cosmology. In Chinese architecture, the tulou of Fujian province are circular, communal defensive structures. In the twenty-first century, mathematical ornamentation is again being used to cover public buildings.
In Renaissance architecture, symmetry and proportion were deliberately emphasized by architects such as Leon Battista Alberti, Sebastiano Serlio and Andrea Palladio, influenced by Vitruvius's De architectura from ancient Rome and the arithmetic of the Pythagoreans from ancient Greece.
At the end of the nineteenth century, Vladimir Shukhov in Russia and Antoni Gaudí in Barcelona pioneered the use of hyperboloid structures; in the Sagrada Família, Gaudí also incorporated hyperbolic paraboloids, tessellations, catenary arches, catenoids, helicoids, and ruled surfaces. In the twentieth century, styles such as modern architecture and Deconstructivism explored different geometries to achieve desired effects. Minimal surfaces have been exploited in tent-like roof coverings as at Denver International Airport, while Richard Buckminster Fuller pioneered the use of the strong thin-shell structures known as geodesic domes.
The architects Michael Ostwald and Kim Williams, considering the relationships between architecture and mathematics, note that the fields as commonly understood might seem to be only weakly connected, since architecture is a profession concerned with the practical matter of making buildings, while mathematics is the pure study of number and other abstract objects. But, they argue, the two are strongly connected, and have been since antiquity. In ancient Rome, Vitruvius described an architect as a man who knew enough of a range of other disciplines, primarily geometry, to enable him to oversee skilled artisans in all the other necessary areas, such as masons and carpenters. The same applied in the Middle Ages, where graduates learnt arithmetic, geometry and aesthetics alongside the basic syllabus of grammar, logic, and rhetoric (the trivium) in elegant halls made by master builders who had guided many craftsmen. A master builder at the top of his profession was given the title of architect or engineer. In the Renaissance, the quadrivium of arithmetic, geometry, music and astronomy became an extra syllabus expected of the Renaissance man such as Leon Battista Alberti. Similarly in England, Sir Christopher Wren, known today as an architect, was firstly a noted astronomer.[3]
Williams and Ostwald, further overviewing the interaction of mathematics and architecture since 1500 according to the approach of the German sociologist Theodor Adorno, identify three tendencies among architects, namely: to be revolutionary, introducing wholly new ideas; reactionary, failing to introduce change; or revivalist, actually going backwards. They argue that architects have avoided looking to mathematics for inspiration in revivalist times. This would explain why in revivalist periods, such as the Gothic Revival in 19th century England, architecture had little connection to mathematics. Equally, they note that in reactionary times such as the Italian Mannerism of about 1520 to 1580, or the 17th century Baroque and Palladian movements, mathematics was barely consulted. In contrast, the revolutionary early 20th century movements such as Futurism and Constructivism actively rejected old ideas, embracing mathematics and leading to Modernist architecture. Towards the end of the 20th century, too, fractal geometry was quickly seized upon by architects, as was aperiodic tiling, to provide interesting and attractive coverings for buildings.[4]
Architects use mathematics for several reasons, leaving aside the necessary use of mathematics in the engineering of buildings.[5] Firstly, they use geometry because it defines the spatial form of a building.[6] Secondly, they use mathematics to design forms that are considered beautiful or harmonious.[7] From the time of the Pythagoreans with their religious philosophy of number,[8] architects in ancient Greece, ancient Rome, the Islamic world and the Italian Renaissance have chosen the proportions of the built environment – buildings and their designed surroundings – according to mathematical as well as aesthetic and sometimes religious principles.[9][10][11][12] Thirdly, they may use mathematical objects such as tessellations to decorate buildings.[13][14] Fourthly, they may use mathematics in the form of computer modelling to meet environmental goals, such as to minimise whirling air currents at the base of tall buildings.[1]
The influential ancient Roman architect Vitruvius argued that the design of a building such as a temple depends on two qualities, proportion and symmetria. Proportion ensures that each part of a building relates harmoniously to every other part. Symmetria in Vitruvius's usage means something closer to the English term modularity than mirror symmetry, as again it relates to the assembling of (modular) parts into the whole building. In his Basilica at Fano, he uses ratios of small integers, especially the triangular numbers (1, 3, 6, 10, ...) to proportion the structure into (Vitruvian) modules.[a] Thus the Basilica's width to length is 1:2; the aisle around it is as high as it is wide, 1:1; the columns are five feet thick and fifty feet high, 1:10.[9]
Vitruvius named three qualities required of architecture in his De architectura, c. 15 B.C.: firmness, usefulness (or "Commodity" in Henry Wotton's 16th century English), and delight. These can be used as categories for classifying the ways in which mathematics is used in architecture. Firmness encompasses the use of mathematics to ensure a building stands up, hence the mathematical tools used in design and to support construction, for instance to ensure stability and to model performance. Usefulness derives in part from the effective application of mathematics, reasoning about and analysing the spatial and other relationships in a design. Delight is an attribute of the resulting building, resulting from the embodying of mathematical relationships in the building; it includes aesthetic, sensual and intellectual qualities.[16]
The Pantheon in Rome has survived intact, illustrating classical Roman structure, proportion, and decoration. The main structure is a dome, the apex left open as a circular oculus to let in light; it is fronted by a short colonnade with a triangular pediment. The height to the oculus and the diameter of the interior circle are the same, 43.3 metres (142 ft), so the whole interior would fit exactly within a cube, and the interior could house a sphere of the same diameter.[17] These dimensions make more sense when expressed in ancient Roman units of measurement: The dome spans 150 Roman feet[b]); the oculus is 30 Roman feet in diameter; the doorway is 40 Roman feet high.[18] The Pantheon remains the world's largest unreinforced concrete dome.[19]
The first Renaissance treatise on architecture was Leon Battista Alberti's 1450 De re aedificatoria (On the Art of Building); it became the first printed book on architecture in 1485. It was partly based on Vitruvius's De architectura and, via Nicomachus, Pythagorean arithmetic. Alberti starts with a cube, and derives ratios from it. Thus the diagonal of a face gives the ratio 1:√2, while the diameter of the sphere which circumscribes the cube gives 1:√3.[20][21] Alberti also documented Filippo Brunelleschi's discovery of linear perspective, developed to enable the design of buildings which would look beautifully proportioned when viewed from a convenient distance.[12]
The next major text was Sebastiano Serlio's Regole generali d'architettura (General Rules of Architecture); the first volume appeared in Venice in 1537; the 1545 volume (books 1 and 2) covered geometry and perspective. Two of Serlio's methods for constructing perspectives were wrong, but this did not stop his work being widely used.[23]
In 1570, Andrea Palladio published the influential I quattro libri dell'architettura (The Four Books of Architecture) in Venice. This widely printed book was largely responsible for spreading the ideas of the Italian Renaissance throughout Europe, assisted by proponents like the English diplomat Henry Wotton with his 1624 The Elements of Architecture.[24] The proportions of each room within the villa were calculated on simple mathematical ratios like 3:4 and 4:5, and the different rooms within the house were interrelated by these ratios. Earlier architects had used these formulas for balancing a single symmetrical facade; however, Palladio's designs related to the whole, usually square, villa.[25] Palladio permitted a range of ratios in the Quattro libri, stating:[26][27]
There are seven types of room that are the most beautiful and well proportioned and turn out better: they can be made circular, though these are rare; or square; or their length will equal the diagonal of the square of the breadth; or a square and a third; or a square and a half; or a square and two-thirds; or two squares.[c]In 1615, Vincenzo Scamozzi published the late Renaissance treatise L'idea dell'architettura universale (The Idea of a Universal Architecture).[28] He attempted to relate the design of cities and buildings to the ideas of Vitruvius and the Pythagoreans, and to the more recent ideas of Palladio.[29]
Hyperboloid structures were used starting towards the end of the nineteenth century by Vladimir Shukhov for masts, lighthouses and cooling towers. Their striking shape is both aesthetically interesting and strong, using structural materials economically. Shukhov's first hyperboloidal tower was exhibited in Nizhny Novgorod in 1896.[30][31][32]
The early twentieth century movement Modern architecture, pioneered[d] by Russian Constructivism,[33] used rectilinear Euclidean (also called Cartesian) geometry. In the De Stijl movement, the horizontal and the vertical were seen as constituting the universal. The architectural form consists of putting these two directional tendencies together, using roof planes, wall planes and balconies, which either slide past or intersect each other, as in the 1924 Rietveld Schröder House by Gerrit Rietveld.[34]
Modernist architects were free to make use of curves as well as planes. Charles Holden's 1933 Arnos station has a circular ticket hall in brick with a flat concrete roof.[35] In 1938, the Bauhaus painter László Moholy-Nagy adopted Raoul Heinrich Francé's seven biotechnical elements, namely the crystal, the sphere, the cone, the plane, the (cuboidal) strip, the (cylindrical) rod, and the spiral, as the supposed basic building blocks of architecture inspired by nature.[36][37]
Le Corbusier proposed an anthropometric scale of proportions in architecture, the Modulor, based on the supposed height of a man.[38] Le Corbusier's 1955 Chapelle Notre-Dame du Haut uses free-form curves not describable in mathematical formulae.[e] The shapes are said to be evocative of natural forms such as the prow of a ship or praying hands.[41] The design is only at the largest scale: there is no hierarchy of detail at smaller scales, and thus no fractal dimension; the same applies to other famous twentieth-century buildings such as the Sydney Opera House, Denver International Airport, and the Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao.[39]
Contemporary architecture, in the opinion of the 90 leading architects who responded to a 2010 World Architecture Survey, is extremely diverse; the best was judged to be Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao.[42]
Denver International Airport's terminal building, completed in 1995, has a fabric roof supported as a minimal surface (i.e., its mean curvature is zero) by steel cables. It evokes Colorado's snow-capped mountains and the teepee tents of Native Americans.[43][44]
The architect Richard Buckminster Fuller is famous for designing strong thin-shell structures known as geodesic domes. The Montréal Biosphère dome is 61 metres (200 ft) high; its diameter is 76 metres (249 ft).[45]
Sydney Opera House has a dramatic roof consisting of soaring white vaults, reminiscent of ship's sails; to make them possible to construct using standardized components, the vaults are all composed of triangular sections of spherical shells with the same radius. These have the required uniform curvature in every direction.[46]
The late twentieth century movement Deconstructivism creates deliberate disorder with what Nikos Salingaros in A Theory of Architecture calls random forms[47] of high complexity[48] by using non-parallel walls, superimposed grids and complex 2-D surfaces, as in Frank Gehry's Disney Concert Hall and Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao.[49][50] Until the twentieth century, architecture students were obliged to have a grounding in mathematics. Salingaros argues that first "overly simplistic, politically-driven" Modernism and then "anti-scientific" Deconstructivism have effectively separated architecture from mathematics. He believes that this "reversal of mathematical values" is harmful, as the "pervasive aesthetic" of non-mathematical architecture trains people "to reject mathematical information in the built environment"; he argues that this has negative effects on society.[39]
New Objectivity: Walter Gropius's Bauhaus, Dessau, 1925
Cylinder: Charles Holden's Arnos Grove tube station, 1933
Modernism: Le Corbusier's Chapelle Notre Dame du Haut, 1955
Geodesic dome: the Montréal Biosphère by R. Buckminster Fuller, 1967
Uniform curvature: Sydney Opera House, 1973
Deconstructivism: Disney Concert Hall, Los Angeles, 2003
The pyramids of ancient Egypt are tombs constructed with mathematical proportions, but which these were, and whether the Pythagorean theorem was used, are debated. The ratio of the slant height to half the base length of the Great Pyramid of Giza is less than 1% from the golden ratio.[51] If this was the design method, it would imply the use of Kepler's triangle (face angle 51°49'),[51][52] but according to many historians of science, the golden ratio was not known until the time of the Pythagoreans.[53] The Great Pyramid may also have been based on a triangle with base to hypotenuse ratio 1:4/π (face angle 51°50').[54]
The proportions of some pyramids may have also been based on the 3:4:5 triangle (face angle 53°8'), known from the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus (c. 1650–1550 BC); this was first conjectured by historian Moritz Cantor in 1882.[55] It is known that right angles were laid out accurately in ancient Egypt using knotted cords for measurement,[55] that Plutarch recorded in Isis and Osiris (c. 100 AD) that the Egyptians admired the 3:4:5 triangle,[55] and that a scroll from before 1700 BC demonstrated basic square formulas.[56][f] Historian Roger L. Cooke observes that "It is hard to imagine anyone being interested in such conditions without knowing the Pythagorean theorem," but also notes that no Egyptian text before 300 BC actually mentions the use of the theorem to find the length of a triangle's sides, and that there are simpler ways to construct a right angle. Cooke concludes that Cantor's conjecture remains uncertain; he guesses that the ancient Egyptians probably knew the Pythagorean theorem, but "there is no evidence that they used it to construct right angles."[55]
Vaastu Shastra, the ancient Indian canons of architecture and town planning, employs symmetrical drawings called mandalas. Complex calculations are used to arrive at the dimensions of a building and its components. The designs are intended to integrate architecture with nature, the relative functions of various parts of the structure, and ancient beliefs utilizing geometric patterns (yantra), symmetry and directional alignments.[57][58] However, early builders may have come upon mathematical proportions by accident. The mathematician Georges Ifrah notes that simple "tricks" with string and stakes can be used to lay out geometric shapes, such as ellipses and right angles.[12][59]
The mathematics of fractals has been used to show that the reason why existing buildings have universal appeal and are visually satisfying is because they provide the viewer with a sense of scale at different viewing distances. For example, in the tall gopuram gatehouses of Hindu temples such as the Virupaksha Temple at Hampi built in the seventh century, and others such as the Kandariya Mahadev Temple at Khajuraho, the parts and the whole have the same character, with fractal dimension in the range 1.7 to 1.8. The cluster of smaller towers (shikhara, lit. 'mountain') about the tallest, central, tower which represents the holy Mount Kailash, abode of Lord Shiva, depicts the endless repetition of universes in Hindu cosmology.[2][60] The religious studies scholar William J. Jackson observed of the pattern of towers grouped among smaller towers, themselves grouped among still smaller towers, that:
The ideal form gracefully artificed suggests the infinite rising levels of existence and consciousness, expanding sizes rising toward transcendence above, and at the same time housing the sacred deep within.[60][61]The Meenakshi Amman Temple is a large complex with multiple shrines, with the streets of Madurai laid out concentrically around it according to the shastras. The four gateways are tall towers (gopurams) with fractal-like repetitive structure as at Hampi. The enclosures around each shrine are rectangular and surrounded by high stone walls.[62]
Pythagoras (c. 569 – c. 475 B.C.) and his followers, the Pythagoreans, held that "all things are numbers". They observed the harmonies produced by notes with specific small-integer ratios of frequency, and argued that buildings too should be designed with such ratios. The Greek word symmetria originally denoted the harmony of architectural shapes in precise ratios from a building's smallest details right up to its entire design.[12]
The Parthenon is 69.5 metres (228 ft) long, 30.9 metres (101 ft) wide and 13.7 metres (45 ft) high to the cornice. This gives a ratio of width to length of 4:9, and the same for height to width. Putting these together gives height:width:length of 16:36:81, or to the delight[63] of the Pythagoreans 42:62:92. This sets the module as 0.858 m. A 4:9 rectangle can be constructed as three contiguous rectangles with sides in the ratio 3:4. Each half-rectangle is then a convenient 3:4:5 right triangle, enabling the angles and sides to be checked with a suitably knotted rope. The inner area (naos) similarly has 4:9 proportions (21.44 metres (70.3 ft) wide by 48.3 m long); the ratio between the diameter of the outer columns, 1.905 metres (6.25 ft), and the spacing of their centres, 4.293 metres (14.08 ft), is also 4:9.[12]
The Parthenon is considered by authors such as John Julius Norwich "the most perfect Doric temple ever built".[64] Its elaborate architectural refinements include "a subtle correspondence between the curvature of the stylobate, the taper of the naos walls and the entasis of the columns".[64] Entasis refers to the subtle diminution in diameter of the columns as they rise. The stylobate is the platform on which the columns stand. As in other classical Greek temples,[65] the platform has a slight parabolic upward curvature to shed rainwater and reinforce the building against earthquakes. The columns might therefore be supposed to lean outwards, but they actually lean slightly inwards so that if they carried on, they would meet about a kilometre and a half above the centre of the building; since they are all the same height, the curvature of the outer stylobate edge is transmitted to the architrave and roof above: "all follow the rule of being built to delicate curves".[66]
The golden ratio was known in 300 B.C., when Euclid described the method of geometric construction.[67] It has been argued that the golden ratio was used in the design of the Parthenon and other ancient Greek buildings, as well as sculptures, paintings, and vases.[68] More recent authors such as Nikos Salingaros, however, doubt all these claims.[69] Experiments by the computer scientist George Markowsky failed to find any preference for the golden rectangle.[70]
The historian of Islamic art Antonio Fernandez-Puertas suggests that the Alhambra, like the Great Mosque of Cordoba,[71] was designed using the Hispano-Muslim foot or codo of about 0.62 metres (2.0 ft). In the palace's Court of the Lions, the proportions follow a series of surds. A rectangle with sides 1 and √2 has (by Pythagoras's theorem) a diagonal of √3, which describes the right triangle made by the sides of the court; the series continues with √4 (giving a 1:2 ratio), √5 and so on. The decorative patterns are similarly proportioned, √2 generating squares inside circles and eight-pointed stars, √3 generating six-pointed stars. There is no evidence to support earlier claims that the golden ratio was used in the Alhambra.[10][72] The Court of the Lions is bracketed by the Hall of Two Sisters and the Hall of the Abencerrajes; a regular hexagon can be drawn from the centres of these two halls and the four inside corners of the Court of the Lions.[73]
The Selimiye Mosque in Edirne, Turkey, was built by Mimar Sinan to provide a space where the mihrab could be see from anywhere inside the building. The very large central space is accordingly arranged as an octagon, formed by eight enormous pillars, and capped by a circular dome of 31.25 metres (102.5 ft) diameter and 43 metres (141 ft) high. The octagon is formed into a square with four semidomes, and externally by four exceptionally tall minarets, 83 metres (272 ft) tall. The building's plan is thus a circle, inside an octagon, inside a square.[74]
Mughal architecture, as seen in the abandoned imperial city of Fatehpur Sikri and the Taj Mahal complex, has a distinctive mathematical order and a strong aesthetic based on symmetry and harmony.[11][75]
The Taj Mahal exemplifies Mughal architecture, both representing paradise[76] and displaying the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan's power through its scale, symmetry and costly decoration. The white marble mausoleum, decorated with pietra dura, the great gate (Darwaza-i rauza), other buildings, the gardens and paths together form a unified hierarchical design. The buildings include a mosque in red sandstone on the west, and an almost identical building, the Jawab or 'answer' on the east to maintain the bilateral symmetry of the complex. The formal charbagh ('fourfold garden') is in four parts, symbolising the four rivers of Paradise, and offering views and reflections of the mausoleum. These are divided in turn into 16 parterres.[77]
The Taj Mahal complex was laid out on a grid, subdivided into smaller grids. The historians of architecture Koch and Barraud agree with the traditional accounts that give the width of the complex as 374 Mughal yards or gaz,[g] the main area being three 374-gaz squares. These were divided in areas like the bazaar and caravanserai into 17-gaz modules; the garden and terraces are in modules of 23 gaz, and are 368 gaz wide (16 x 23). The mausoleum, mosque and guest house are laid out on a grid of 7 gaz. Koch and Barraud observe that if an octagon, used repeatedly in the complex, is given sides of 7 units, then it has a width of 17 units,[h] which may help to explain the choice of ratios in the complex.[78]
The Christian patriarchal basilica of Haghia Sophia in Byzantium (now Istanbul), first constructed in 537 (and twice rebuilt), was for a thousand years[i] the largest cathedral ever built. It inspired many later buildings including Sultan Ahmed and other mosques in the city. The Byzantine architecture includes a nave crowned by a circular dome and two half-domes, all of the same diameter (31 metres (102 ft)), with a further five smaller half-domes forming an apse and four rounded corners of a vast rectangular interior.[79] This was interpreted by mediaeval architects as representing the mundane below (the square base) and the divine heavens above (the soaring spherical dome).[80] The emperor Justinian used two geometers, Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles as architects; Isidore compiled the works of Archimedes on solid geometry, and was influenced by him.[12][81]
The importance of water baptism in Christianity was reflected in the scale of baptistry architecture. The oldest, the Lateran Baptistry in Rome, built in 440,[82] set a trend for octagonal baptistries; the baptismal font inside these buildings was often octagonal, though Italy's largest baptistry, at Pisa, built between 1152 and 1363, is circular, with an octagonal font. It is 54.86 metres (180.0 ft) high, with a diameter of 34.13 metres (112.0 ft) (a ratio of 8:5).[83] Saint Ambrose wrote that fonts and baptistries were octagonal "because on the eighth day,[j] by rising, Christ loosens the bondage of death and receives the dead from their graves."[84][85]
Saint Augustine similarly described the eighth day as "everlasting ... hallowed by the resurrection of Christ".[85][86] The octagonal Baptistry of Saint John, Florence, built between 1059 and 1128, is one of the oldest buildings in that city, and one of the last in the direct tradition of classical antiquity; it was extremely influential in the subsequent Florentine Renaissance, as major architects including Francesco Talenti, Alberti and Brunelleschi used it as the model of classical architecture.[87]
The number five is used "exuberantly"[88] in the 1721 Pilgrimage Church of St John of Nepomuk at Zelená hora, near Žďár nad Sázavou in the Czech republic, designed by Jan Blažej Santini Aichel. The nave is circular, surrounded by five pairs of columns and five oval domes alternating with ogival apses. The church further has five gates, five chapels, five altars and five stars; a legend claims that when Saint John of Nepomuk was martyred, five stars appeared over his head.[88][89] The fivefold architecture may also symbolise the five wounds of Christ and the five letters of "Tacui" (Latin: "I kept silence" [about secrets of the confessional]).[90]
Antoni Gaudí used a wide variety of geometric structures, some being minimal surfaces, in the Sagrada Família, Barcelona, started in 1882 (and not completed as of 2015). These include hyperbolic paraboloids and hyperboloids of revolution,[91] tessellations, catenary arches, catenoids, helicoids, and ruled surfaces. This varied mix of geometries is creatively combined in different ways around the church. For example, in the Passion Façade of Sagrada Família, Gaudí assembled stone "branches" in the form of hyperbolic paraboloids, which overlap at their tops (directrices) without, therefore, meeting at a point. In contrast, in the colonnade there are hyperbolic paraboloidal surfaces that smoothly join other structures to form unbounded surfaces. Further, Gaudí exploits natural patterns, themselves mathematical, with columns derived from the shapes of trees, and lintels made from unmodified basalt naturally cracked (by cooling from molten rock) into hexagonal columns.[92][93][94]
The 1971 Cathedral of Saint Mary of the Assumption, San Francisco has a saddle roof composed of eight segments of hyperbolic paraboloids, arranged so that the bottom horizontal cross section of the roof is a square and the top cross section is a Christian cross. The building is a square 77.7 metres (255 ft) on a side, and 57.9 metres (190 ft) high.[95] The 1970 Cathedral of Brasília by Oscar Niemeyer makes a different use of a hyperboloid structure; it is constructed from 16 identical concrete beams, each weighing 90 tonnes,[k] arranged in a circle to form a hyperboloid of revolution, the white beams creating a shape like hands praying to heaven. Only the dome is visible from outside: most of the building is below ground.[96][97][98][99]
Several medieval churches in Scandinavia are circular, including four on the Danish island of Bornholm. One of the oldest of these, Østerlars Church from c. 1160, has a circular nave around a massive circular stone column, pierced with arches and decorated with a fresco. The circular structure has three storeys and was apparently fortified, the top storey having served for defence.[100]
[101]
The vaulting of the nave of Haghia Sophia, Istanbul (annotations), 562
The octagonal Baptistry of Saint John, Florence, completed in 1128
Fivefold symmetries: Jan Santini Aichel's Pilgrimage Church of St John of Nepomuk at Zelená hora, 1721
Passion façade of Antoni Gaudí's Sagrada Família, Barcelona, started 1882
Oscar Niemeyer's Cathedral of Brasília, 1970
The Cathedral of Saint Mary of the Assumption, San Francisco, 1971
Central column of Østerlars Nordic round church in Bornholm, Denmark
Islamic buildings are often decorated with geometric patterns which typically make use of several mathematical tessellations, formed of ceramic tiles (girih, zellige) that may themselves be plain or decorated with stripes.[12] Symmetries such as stars with six, eight, or multiples of eight points are used in Islamic patterns. Some of these are based on the 'Khatem Sulemani' or Solomon's seal motif, which is an eight-pointed star made of two squares, one rotated 45 degrees from the other on the same centre.[102] Islamic patterns exploit many of the 17 possible wallpaper groups; as early as 1944, Edith Müller showed that the Alhambra made use of 11 wallpaper groups in its decorations, while in 1986 Branko Grünbaum claimed to have found 13 wallpaper groups in the Alhambra, asserting controversially that the remaining four groups are not found anywhere in Islamic ornament.[102]
The complex geometry and tilings of the muqarnas vaulting in the Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque, Isfahan, 1603–1619
Louvre Abu Dhabi under construction in 2015, its dome built up of layers of stars made of octagons, triangles, and squares
Towards the end of the 20th century, novel mathematical constructs such as fractal geometry and aperiodic tiling were seized upon by architects to provide interesting and attractive coverings for buildings.[4] In 1913, the Modernist architect Adolf Loos had declared that "Ornament is a crime",[103] influencing architectural thinking for the rest of the 20th century. In the 21st century, architects are again starting to explore the use of ornament. 21st century ornamentation is extremely diverse. Henning Larsen's 2011 Harpa Concert and Conference Centre, Reykjavik has what looks like a crystal wall of rock made of large blocks of glass.[103] Foreign Office Architects' 2010 Ravensbourne College, London is tessellated decoratively with 28,000 anodised aluminium tiles in red, white and brown, interlinking circular windows of differing sizes. The tessellation uses three types of tile, an equilateral triangle and two irregular pentagons.[104][105][l] Kazumi Kudo's Kanazawa Umimirai Library creates a decorative grid made of small circular blocks of glass set into plain concrete walls.[103]
Ravensbourne College, London, 2010
Harpa Concert and Conference Centre, Iceland, 2011
Kanazawa Umimirai Library, Japan, 2011
Museo Soumaya, México, 2011
The architecture of fortifications evolved from medieval fortresses, which had high masonry walls, to low, symmetrical star forts able to resist artillery bombardment between the mid-fifteenth and nineteenth centuries. The geometry of the star shapes was dictated by the need to avoid dead zones where attacking infantry could shelter from defensive fire; the sides of the projecting points were angled to permit such fire to sweep the ground, and to provide crossfire (from both sides) beyond each projecting point. Well-known architects who designed such defences include Michelangelo, Baldassare Peruzzi, Vincenzo Scamozzi and Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban.[106][107]
The architectural historian Siegfried Giedion argued that the star-shaped fortification had a formative influence on the patterning of the Renaissance ideal city: "The Renaissance was hypnotized by one city type which for a century and a half—from Filarete to Scamozzi—was impressed upon all utopian schemes: this is the star-shaped city."[108]
Coevorden fortification plan. 17th century
Palmanova, Italy, a Venetian city within a star fort. 17th century
Neuf-Brisach, Alsace, one of the Fortifications of Vauban
In Chinese architecture, the tulou of Fujian province are circular, communal defensive structures with mainly blank walls and a single iron-plated wooden door, some dating back to the sixteenth century. The walls are topped with roofs that slope gently both outwards and inwards, forming a ring. The centre of the circle is an open cobbled courtyard, often with a well, surrounded by timbered galleries up to five stories high.[109]
Architects may also select the form of a building to meet environmental goals.[88] For example, Foster and Partners' 30 St Mary Axe, London, known as "The Gherkin" for its cucumber-like shape, is a solid of revolution designed using parametric modelling. Its geometry was chosen not purely for aesthetic reasons, but to minimise whirling air currents at its base. Despite the building's apparently curved surface, all the panels of glass forming its skin are flat, except for the lens at the top. Most of the panels are quadrilaterals, as they can be cut from rectangular glass with less wastage than triangular panels.[1]

The traditional yakhchal (ice pit) of Persia functioned as an evaporative cooler. Above ground, the structure had a domed shape, but had a subterranean storage space for ice and sometimes food as well. The subterranean space and the thick heat-resistant construction insulated the storage space year round. The internal space was often further cooled with windcatchers.[110]